Sentencing proceedings for convicted murderer Christopher Panayiotou and his co-accused are currently underway at Port Elizabeth High Court. Earlier in November, the Port Elizabeth businessman was found guilty of the murder of his wife Jayde in April 2015. Judge Chetty convicted Panayiotou of murder while hitman Sinethemba Nemembe, 28, was found guilty of murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances and Zolani Sibeko, 35, for conspiracy to commit murder. Uitenhage teacher Jayde, 29, went missing from outside her home in Kabega Park, Port Elizabeth on April 21, 2015. Her body was found in Kwa-Nobuhle the next day. Chetty said an inference could properly be made from the gun residue found on her hand that in her final moments she had begged for mercy. “That act of supplication, however, elicited a bullet to her head. The medical and ballistic findings compel the conclusion that this was an execution-style murder.” Chetty’s findings included that Jayde Panayiotou was shot execution-style. This was backed up by the gun residue found on her hand as she tried to shield herself from the final bullet to the head. He said Middleman Luthando Siyoni and his girlfriend, Babalwa Breakfast, were suborned to recant their police statements, taking the state by surprise. Panayiotou’s involvement was proven beyond a reasonable doubt by the recorded conversation as his intimate knowledge of the kidnapping and murder became clear. Turning to the sting video in which Panayiotou and Siyoni candidly discussed Jayde’s murder, Chetty said the police conduct had not gone beyond providing an opportunity for Panayiotou to commit an offence. “It is clear the evidence procured in the car established Panayiotou’s complicity in Jayde’s murder beyond a reasonable doubt.” After judgment was passed on Justice For Jayde Facebook page it was written: “Coward! couldn’t even take the stand”. “Hope you suffer in prison! Where you belong. That look on your face shows how evil you are! “I hope you remember yesterday forever”. “When everyone clapped I hope you heard it, cause that applause was for Jayde. The beautiful woman whose life you decided to end. “He doesn’t deserve to be called her hubby, don’t call him that,” Wendy Paul posted. Some comments applauded the judgment saying Panayoitou got a birthday gift he deserved. -TNA Reporter  