The 36th edition of the Standard Bank Young Artist of the Year recently unveiled another group of young people making the right moves in areas of dance, jazz, music, theatre and visual arts with the crowning of new stars. The six recipients of the prestigious Standard Bank Young Artist of the Year for 2018 were introduced at an event held at Kramerville Place, 14A Kramer Road, north of Johannesburg. The list includes Chuma Sopotela who took honours for performance art, Guy Buttery for music, Igshaan Adams for visual art, Jemma Kahn for theatre, Musa Hlatshwayo for dance and Thandi Ntuli for jazz. The minister of arts and culture also sent his congratulatory messages to the group of young people. “You are a shining example of the talent and commitment of South African artists and we look forward to seeing more of your work realised in the years to come,” the minister said in a statement. Established in 1981, the Young Artist Awards, honour a emerging, relatively young South African artists who have demonstrated exceptional ability in their chosen fields but who have not yet achieved national exposure and acclaim. Some previous winners include Sibongile Khumalo, Akin Omotoso, Sello Maake Ka Ncube, Johnny Clegg, Nduduzo Makhathini, William Kentridge, Sam Nhlengethwa, Jerry Mofokeng, Thandazile Radebe, Benjamin Jephta and many others. Meet the young stars. Chuma Sopotela Chuma Sopotela is a performance artist whose practice reflects the versatility of skills she commands. She is fast gaining broad respect as an actress, dancer, puppeteer and all-around performing artist. She balances her love for traditional theatre with the complexity and conceptual challenges offered by performance art in a refreshing way. Guy Buttery Guy Buttery is an immensely talented composer and guitarist. He plays like a man on a search to stretch the boundaries of fingerstyle guitar to their outermost limits and he is winning. Buttery has found a way to play his unique style of guitar that is deeply South African while also speaking a global musical language. There’s credibility to his being described by pundits as a South African musical treasure. Igshaan Adam Igshaan Adams is an exciting visual artist who is finding a creative language to discuss faith, gender and identity. His lavish tapestries and sculptures made from strings, beads, found fabric and steel delve into code complex concerns regarding Islam and cultural hybridity. Jemma Kahn Jemma Kahn has found a fascinating way of using a Japanese street theatre, the Kamishibai, to explore uniquely South African theme with universal reach. Her multi-instalment, autobiographical story, In Bocca al Lupo, has shored her up a leading light for her generation of theatrical storytellers. Musa Hlatshwayo Musa Hlatshwayo is a prodigious talent with great promise as both dancer and choreographer. He has performed with various local and international dance and theatre companies. Hlatshwayo maintains a professional practice that is as focused on creative rigour as it is invested in grassroots community development work. Thandi Ntuli Thandi Ntuli is a leading young pianist and composer among a rich cadre of South Africa’s young crop of jazz musicians. Her broad musical vision has seen her shine in various musical contexts. Ntuli plays with equal excitement alongside experimental outfits where she collaborates with a vinyl-spinning DJ or in the company of a classic jazz band or philharmonic orchestra. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za