AMAZULU coach Cavin Johnson must have left Milpark Stadium on Saturday satisfied with what he saw of Kaizer Chiefs during their 1-0 defeat to Bidvest Wits in the Telkom Knockout. Not because Chiefs lost, but because he witnessed a Chiefs side that barely posed a threat throughout the match. The Amakhosi only came out to play in the second half of that game but already the damage had been done as Wits had scored the only goal. As they prepare to meet tonight in the Absa Premiership match at King Zwelithini stadium, Johnson said he had done his homework on how to upset Chiefs as he looks to avenge the 3-0 defeat suffered in the cup competition. “We have prepared well and we think we have the best team picked to play against Chiefs and we are as ready as we can be,” Johnson said. “We’ve done our homework but we take nothing away from Chiefs and the coach, they probably have done their homework as well.” What Johnson would have picked up would be that Chiefs struggled to convert their chances against Wits. They had good chances in the second half to equalise and probably win the game but were let down by poor decisions directly in front of goals. “Chiefs are probably quite cold right now because they are coming from that loss against Wits,” Johnson said. “The thing that we can take advantage of is playing at King Zwelithini Stadium since we know the ground well.” For Chiefs coach Steve Komphela, he will be out to avoid two successive defeats following their Telkom Knockout exit. Komphela is under pressure and cannot afford to drop points against AmaZulu tonight. He knows that his strikers Gustavo Paez, Bernard Parker and Dumisani Zuma will need to bring their scoring boots to the port city. “We need to go to Durban and get a result. The essence of a champion is not falling, the concern should be to always rise,” Komphela said. “That’s what we are concerned about now. Strikers are strikers, you could have the best striker on the day against Wits but if it is not your day you miss chances. “We had opportunities with Zuma and Paez, I thought we could have at least got an equaliser.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za