SUPERSPORT United captain Dean Furman believes they are in a good position to win the CAF Confederation Cup final second leg against TP Mazembe at Lucas Moripe Stadium on Saturday. Trailing 2-1 from the first leg in Lubumbashi, Furman said they are capable of upsetting Mazembe at home. Matsatsantsa a Pitori only need to win the match 1-0 to lift the continental title following the away goal they scored in the first leg. And Furman said that was one of the results they hoped for heading to Atteridgeville. “Not the ideal results obviously, we wanted to win the game but the away goal is what we wanted and we got that wonderful goal from Sipho Mbule.” “We believe that we can cause some problems for them in Atteridgeville on Saturday night, as we did in Lubumbashi especially in the first half. “For us, we feel it is a good position to be in and the game plan will be simple, go and win the game. “All in all, we got the away goal in a difficult place and we believe we can go and do the job on Saturday night.” Having a week to prepare and with Reneilwe Letsholonyane and Morgan Gould to return for the second leg, the Bafana Bafana midfielder also believes they will be stronger than they were in the first leg. Building up to the first leg, they had to do so without some of their key players who were with their national teams doing duty during Fifa week. Some of those players joined them on Friday before their departure to the Democratic Republic of Congo and therefore did not have time to train with the rest of the squad. “If we look at the circumstances building up to this game, it was a logistical nightmare, with players coming from the other side of the world and others coming from across the continent with injuries and suspensions. “So to go away and get the result that we wanted, we can take a lot of positives from it and I believe that with training ahead of Saturday we will be a lot stronger. “But we have to give everything, we needed a good week of preparation and hopefully we can correct a few mistakes. “We know where they are strong and we will work on how to combat that. But we also know we can cause a lot of problems as we did there, especially in the first half. “There are so many things we will work on to put right on Saturday night and hopefully it will be enough to take us over the line.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za