City of Jo’burg metropolitan municipality has urged residents to take part in its third Are sebetseng Cleaning campaign on Saturday, November 25. The initiative seeks to encourage residents to clean and look after the city. Pikitup will provide those participating in the clean up with gloves and refuse bags. They will also be responsible for removing waste and recyclables after every clean-up. The initiative was established by the Executive Mayor of the City Cllr. Herman Mashaba in August this year. It aims to encourage cleanliness within Johannesburg city and its surrounding areas. City of Joburg spokesperson Nico de Jager said the initiative has been growing from strength to strength. “During the second city-wide Are Sebetseng cleaning campaign in October, more than 1250 clean-ups were held all around Johannesburg.” He added that he is confident this weekend’s campaign will be bigger than the two previous ones. “During our IDP-feedback sessions, many residents request additional information about the campaign, and they are asking their councillors how they can take part in this process.” De Jager thanked everyone who participated in last month’s clean up and would like to urge more people to come this Saturday. “I would like to extend a big thank-you to each and every one of the participants. They are showing that the slogan of our campaign – Together, let’s make Johannesburg work – is turning into a reality.” Residents are encouraged to:
• Separate their waste before and during the event
• Take any recyclables to Pikitup garden sites or drop of centres
• To bring their own spades, forks, brooms, wheel barrows and clippers “Participants are not only asked to volunteer their time to clean but also to beautify their surroundings by painting park benches, planting trees and flowers and removing illegal posters and graffiti. Participants can also educate their neighbours and friends on the importance of a clean city. “Over the next few months, the campaign will start to shift its focus to schools and will rely on education programmes ran by strategic partners such as Miss Earth Leadership Programme and Community Hours,” De Jager said. Anyone who wishes to get more information can visit www.aresebetsengjhb.wordpress.com or call Cllr de Jager on 083 899 2127 -Edwin Matji  