TESTING times have arrived for Cape Town City coach Benni McCarthy. Following an impressive start to his career at the club this season where they reached the final of the MTN8 only to lose to SuperSport United, McCarthy has seen his side defeated in their last four matches. This obviously comes as a test for McCarthy as a coach and he now faces the challenge of instilling confidence in his players. McCarthy admitted that his side’s confidence has taken a knock since their MTN8 final defeat to SuperSport but that he believes they can turn things around should they get a win. “It’s tough because when you are new, there are certain things that you are still learning as you go along and when you have lost four in a row it becomes difficult because you wonder how you are going to solve the problem,” McCarthy said. “Is it your players or your team hungry enough to want to continue where they left off when we started because when you win six games in a row, everyone has fighting spirit and desire. “But when you lose, everyone is hiding, people don’t want to play, they don’t want to be counted. “I think we are going to need a big miracle but we just have to continue working hard and fighting and when our fortunes change and we get lucky and win one game maybe that will be a springboard for the guys to push on, but now is about getting over this.” McCarthy however said he will need to work on the attitude and approach of the players as he is not seeing any fighting spirit. “It is not too difficult to motivate them because they are professional players they get paid and that’s their job,” McCarthy said. “They know that if they want to be successful and achieve things, they have to work hard. Playing football is not as easy as it looks, a lot goes into it and a lot of hard work. “I’m afraid at the moment, I don’t think my players are working hard enough, they think that when they step into the pitch the opposition is just going to give them the three points just like that or let them go through to the next round. “At this moment, we are not fighting and that’s the biggest difference.” City will be looking to end their losing streak when they host Free State Stars at Athlone Stadium tonight in an Absa Premiership match. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za 
        