Music fans going to the Joburg Theatre Fringe stage should prepare themselves to be entertained and healed at the same time when Idols SA 2013 contestant Sonke Ngcobo, formerly Mazibuko shows up for his One Night Only with Sonke on November 28. Speaking to The New Age the Afro-soul singer said he will now be introduced as Sonke Ngcobo and not Sonke Mazibuko, his previous name. “My journey is different for all of us. I am on a spiritual journey to find myself as Sonke Ngcobo and that means a lot of reflecting and I believe in my journey as a person. “This means realising that I am not racing with anyone or my peers. Those coming can prepare themselves to be healed kept at the edge of their seats,” the rising star of said. Having moved viewers as well as the show’s judges with his rendition of Zonke’s Jika Izinto at the height of the Idols SA stage, the Soweto born singer made it to top 4, before he was eliminated. Needless to say, it was back to the drawing board for him. He says for him the journey is far more important than fame and fortune. “I have not been sitting around since my time on Idols SA. I have been working and trying different things with mostly small independent record labels as I do not have a record company supporting me. I have had to change managers and really learn some important things about the industry. “You have to respect the industry and take time out to learn and not be blinded by the pressure of appearing on television. I believe now I am ready for bigger things and will soon after this once again perform on big stages,” he said. The 25-year-old singer said he would be realising a full album instead of a single to mark his return to the centre of local music. “I have a single that is not out yet, but I believe in releasing singles because that for me means you do not know what you want in life. Though I can’t put a definitive timeline to it, people can expect a new the album at least in the new year, in the meantime they can come out to Joburg Theatre for a great performance,” he said. Sonke began singing from an early age through talent shows and other local competitions, before becoming part of the Soweto based gospel ensemble, Soweto Gospel Choir for a period of three years. In 2005 he was offered a scholarship to do acting at the National Children’s theatre was formerly known as JYT in Parktown. Over the years he has worked with the likes of Mshoza and performed alongside big name artists such as Celine Dion, Mary J Blige, Danny K, Loyiso Bala, Steven Molakeng and Johnny. SIYABONGA SITHOLE