A PASTOR accused of spraying his congregation members with an insecticide to exorcise evil spirits and diseases will appear again in the Naboomspruit Magistrate’s Court next month. Lethebo Moncha Rabalego appeared briefly in court on Thursday last week on charges including assault and contravening the Agricultural Remedy Act 36 of 1947 and the case was postponed to December 11 to 14 for trial. He is out on a warning. The 24-year-old pastor, known by his followers at Mount Zion General Assembly as a prophet at Moletlane in Zebediela near Lebowakgomo, allegedly committed the crimes during a church service on November 19 last year. “According to allegations, he sprayed his church members with Doom insecticide in their faces, claiming it would heal them. “The case against him was opened in terms of the act which states that no person shall use or recommend any agricultural remedy or stock remedy for any purpose or in any manner,” police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said. “On December 26 last year, one of the congregation members laid a case of assault against him for spraying her in the face with Doom.” In another development, Kevin Mark de Klerk, 62, who was convicted of defrauding the former Venda government of millions of rands, has been sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment by the Sibasa Regional Court. De Klerk and his co-accused were arrested by the Scorpions (now Hawks) in 2006 for swindling people of money through NewSA Multiplication Scheme in Thohoyandou, the NPA said. “In 2013 they were both sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for defrauding former Venda government employees and pensioners of about R42m. They were granted leave to appeal and their bail was extended. “They then disappeared to Cape Town and operated other businesses. De Klerk was rearrested on Wednesday last week and finally sent to prison to begin serving his sentence of 15 years’ imprisonment,” NPA provincial spokesperson Mashudu MalabiDzhangi said. MONTSHO MATLALA  montshom@thenewage.co.za