AMID reports that the South African Defence Force (SANDF) deployment to Western Cape gang hot spots is still up in the air, SANDF chief Gen Solly Shoke set the record straight yesterday at a media briefing at Air Force Base Waterkloof in Pretoria. Last week, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula formally requested that the SANDF be deployed to areas like Nyanga following a spate of gang-related crimes, including the murder of 11 people in Philippi. Shoke said the SANDF had been meeting with the commanders since Monday and they wanted to communicate the purpose of their meetings as there have been some calls for the deployment of the defence force. “With regard to the deployment of soldiers to fight gangsterism, I must say we are soldiers, we take orders and we don’t determine what we do, we go anywhere and any direction where the country needs us to be. “However, when you deploy us you must be ready to accept the consequences because we don’t take nonsense, we are not trained to combat crime we are trained to win battles, but if called we will duly comply, we are ready,” Shoke said. He said they felt the need to communicate the purpose of their meetings to avoid inaccurate information being spread. He said, as the defence force, they have their own challenges like any other government department and met with commanders yesterday to discuss issues of discipline which is paramount for any defence force to succeed. “As you are aware we did have some incidents of ill-discipline which we duly dealt with. Any misconduct in the defence force will not be tolerated. “Recently, we did have an unfortunate situation where one member shot another member and it was reported that it was his girlfriend. It is something that is regrettable and the law will take its process, that member is in hospital. “We will also address issues of budgetary constraints. The serious and disturbing issue of criminality will also surely be dealt with it. “As you also know, some time this year we had the most embarrassing situation when soldiers were robbed of their weapons.” Meanwhile, the body of private Nomathemba Ngeleka, 28, who was shot and killed by her boyfriend who is a SANDF fellow member, is expected to return home next week for burial. Ngeleka was killed by her boyfriend last week Friday in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Defence Ministry spokesperson Brig Mafi Mgobozi confirmed that the members were dating from back home and the parents of the deceased know him. He said that Ngeleka’s body has been taken to Uganda for a post-mortem and it will then be transported home. “The incident happened outside the country but within our base and not outside so the member will face the law here at home. He is in hospital and is in a critical condition,” Mgobozi said. dikeledir@thenewage.co.za