President Jacob Zuma says Radical Economic Transformation (RET) is the policy of the ANC, not his policy. Zuma was speaking during an exclusive interview with ANN7 TV on Monday night. When asked if he wants to be remembered for championing RET, Zuma said he is implementing the policies of the ANC, as he is the leader of the party. “Radical socio-economic transformation is the policy of the ANC. As the leader of the ANC, you have to implement the policies of the ANC,” Zuma said. “For me, talking about RET is not that I’m talking about my thing. I am talking about the policy of the ANC – in other words – sharpening the implementation of the policies of the ANC, not that I want this to be my legacy, it is the legacy of the ANC. “I think what will be important is that perhaps at a given time, the ANC decided to say we need RET as the ANC. We, as cadres, once the resolution is taken, we’ve got to implement it and if I’m the president, I have to lead that.” Zuma said the ruling party needs to educate people on RET so they do not get confused about what is being spoken about. “When we went to Mangaung we had to clarify this and of course for some time, people did not necessarily highlight it that much. At a particular time, I thought it was important as a leader to clarify this as much as possible. “That is why I even tried to define it so that people must know what it is that we are talking about because of other people, when we are talking about economic transformation, they say, ‘what are they talking about?’. Others say they are just talking about this to cover their corruption.” STATE CAPTURE The president has denied the existence of state capture, saying people use the term for political propaganda. “The state is made of three pillars. It is the executive, the legislature and judiciary. If you loosely put this term as a state capture, you are actually saying the executive, the legislature and judiciary are captured. “[It] is a wrong meaning of what people are saying. But they do this for political reasons. There’s no Parliament that is captured, there’s no executive that is captured.” EFF DISCUSSION Zuma, when asked if he had intentions to bring the EFF back, said the leadership of the ANC had not yet discussed the matter. “We have not discussed that the EFF, whether they could come back to the ANC or not. I think the problem the EFF is faced with is that many people, particularly its top leadership, come from the ANC. “I don’t think if we are in the ANC, we are able to create another policy better than that of the ANC.  I think that is one of the dilemmas of the EFF. What can you say to the people of South Africa, ‘we are better than the ANC? We are better than the ANC please put us in government’. “People are not blind, they are not going to vote for you because you are able to raise your voice more than any other people. They want to hear the content. I think that is the difficulty that the EFF is faced with. The president, however, says the EFF does not disagree with the policies of the ANC. “The EFF was created because of its leader, with others, moved away from the ANC because of certain things – not that they disagreed with the policies of the ANC. “Political life is political life. [It] is not something I want to predict about. I’m sure at some point people might come to their senses, to say, is this helping the country, to be shouting at one another every day instead of working together to change South Africa?” -TNA Reporter 
        