Perhaps I am simply having a dumb blonde moment. I am really battling to understand the storyline of today’s popular narrative. Do I need someone to connect the commonsense dots for me or could it be that South Africa’s chattering class is simply illiterate? Enemy of the People is the latest literary eructation in a swamp of neatly packaged so-called exposes written about President Jacob Zuma. This is the work of News24 editor Adriaan Basson and Pieter du Toit, the editor-in-chief of HuffPost South Africa. The front cover of this offering, about to be launched, is emboldened with the following script; “How Jacob Zuma stole South Africa and how the people fought back.” This very same storytelling also forms the thematic underbelly of a series of recent “works” on Zuma. The demonisation of a democratically elected black president and the portrayal of him as the enemy of the people of South Africa is horribly misleading and deeply disturbing. A few malignant conservative, make-a-buck opportunistic hacks do not in any way add up to the people! Talking of opportunists, the pride-of-place front cover endorsement of the book is a puff by the former public protector Thuli Madonsela, which reads as follows: “A must-read for anyone interested in state capture and getting South Africa back on track.” Madonsela implies that state capture is a newborn construct of the president. A far more accurate and honest quote on state capture, which I doubt would ever be inked in such a book, is by Xola Skosana, who said: “There has never been a time when the state has not been captured. It is a question of by whom and for whose interest.” I am anti state capture of any form. If the president is found to be guilty of state capture or any other wrongdoing, he should, like any other citizen, be held accountable in a court of law, not through a premeditated and promiscuous plot of propaganda penned by any author of white monopoly capital. No one, including the president, should be prosecuted or persecuted on the back of political fiction or ruthless propaganda. It is, in my view, irrational and literary trickery to entertain a narrative of the president as the enemy of the people in a country that has been brutally ravaged by centuries of plunder by western powers and so violently violated in every way by white supremacy. The legacy of that history is the real enemy of the people, an enemy that has yet to be confronted and which many continue to shield today. The release of The President’s Keepers by veteran journalist Jacques Pauw last week caused quite a stir. interestingly if we connect the dots, without partisan propaganda, pride or prejudice, we will find that this literary ‘trick or treat’ is published by NB publishers, which is part of the Naspers stable. For those without apartheid amnesia, we will know that Naspers is a media group complicit with apartheid. If we connect the dots, we will also see, without any opaqueness, how mainstream media are working together, in perfect symmetry, as the effective marketing engine for such works. If we connect the dots, we will also find that this publishing house is part of the Naspers stable. For those without apartheid amnesia, we will know that Naspers were a powerful supporter of the previous nationalist government. If we connect the dots, we will also see, without any opaqueness, how mainstream media are working together, in perfect symmetry, as the marketing engine for such works. In the politically charged ether of presidential elections in South Africa, it is not surprising to see how book publishing is not following the traditional prized pre-Christmas shopping list schedule, but a masterful sequencing of dead-lining (pun intended) ahead of the ANC electoral conference in December. I love books. I always have. As a child, I found my pleasure and sanctity in the dusty and worn pages of literary works, in the poignancy of poetry and in the chambers of history books. Even today there is nothing more tantalising to me than a tale told with verbal mastery and imagery that excites and liberates the imagination and lights up my yearning for cognition and consciousness. But I have not yet succumbed to the thrill of The President’s Keepers, a book that has given rise to an uncharacteristic and unquenchable thirst for reading in South Africa. It reminds me of the publishing phenomenon of Harry Potter. Despite my passion for prose and poetry, my daughter was not much of a reader until Harry Potter, a fantasy novel, by UK author J.K Rowlings, transfigured (or in my view disfigured) the conventional notion of what constitutes literature and captured the attention of millions of formerly disengaged readers. Potter is effectively the tale of a young “good” wizard and his moral crusade against an aging evil wizard. With sales of more than 500 million and translations into more than 25 languages since it was first published in 1997, Potter is the best seller of all time. It is a book that has shaped the genre of today’s generation of readers with its formula of fantasy and its almost caricatured telling of superheroes pitted against evil forces. One thing is certain, The President’s Keepers is set to be nominated for a literary prize. Whether this will be for fiction or non-fiction, only time will tell. I don’t want to criticise the book for I have not read it but I do protest against the ready acceptance of it as a testimony of truth. There is too little debate about whether this book is an inkwell of proficient and dramatically crafted prose or whether it is simply the collective word of masterful propaganda. It appears now that Pauw admitted that he has no solid evidence for some of his explosive and damning storylines on Zuma and presidential candidate Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Yet this is unlikely to sap the thirst for this book among those who tellingly have never shown much interest in books on South Africa’s contemporary socioeconomics or historical discourse. The distaste for the president among a sector of South Africans is so bitter that it creates a wizardry of untested support for any and all critics of the president. But hopefully, like the Potter books, The President’s Keepers and its serial companions will serve some public good by nurturing a stronger appetite for reading. I am pleased that my daughter has graduated from the fancifulness of Potter to science and medical journals. Perhaps there are some good wizards after all – even if they exist only within the realm of fiction and fantasy and in the archives and activism of propaganda. Kim Heller is a columnist and commentator