A family member of one of the Life Esidimeni patients who survived the deadly transfer yesterday called for Gauteng health department officials involved in the tragedy to be charged and arrested. Moeleo Mofokeng, whose sister survived the tragedy, was asked during her testimony what she wanted for redress. She called for officials to tell the truth as to what happened and for the families and patients to be provided with counseling. She said they [department officials] must take responsibility and accountability for the tragedy. Mofokeng said patients died as NGOs saw their move from Esidimeni as a business opportunity while officials were only concerned with carrying out the Mental Health Marathon to save their jobs and positions. “They would have rather sacrificed the lives of our loved ones than to lose their positions. People must be arrested, this is a criminal offense,” Mofokeng said. Mofokeng said officials pressed ahead with deadly transfers despite families foreseeing that there would be challenges such as relapses and deaths. “They did it with their eyes open, with a clear conscience. Dr Makgabo Manamela promised us that patients would be given counseling to prepare them for the move but they never received it.” “We might not be in the medical field but we foresaw that patients would relapse.” Mofokeng has vowed to pursue justice to the bitter end if those involved in the tragedy are not arrested. Her sister Maggy, 36, was moved from Waverly and sent to the Anani NGO in Vereeniging. Maggy fell and hit her head as a child and the family later discovered that she had brain damage. Maggy would later be sent to Takalani NGO where she lived for some time before she was moved to Waverly. Mofokeng said that while at Takalani, Maggy was raped by one of the patients, only for them to be informed three days later. She was 22 at the time. Mofokeng testified how when they went to visit Maggy, she was very ill and taken to a hospital where doctors discovered her private parts were septic. She slammed the version by Manamela that Takalani was a good NGO, saying their experience of Takalani was one that left a bitter taste in their mouths. Mofokeng said following the rape incident, her sister changed and would be violent. She was later kicked out of Takalani. The family took her home and she was later sent to Waverly where she was well taken care of until she was moved, this time to Anani. Mofokeng testified that the family was concerned with security and fencing at Anani and Maggy had lost a lot of weight and was very dark skinned while staying there. She had also not been transferred with her medical file or medicine from Waverly. The hearing continues.  -leratod@thenewage.coza