THE ANC in Parliament has wished former party member Makhosi Khoza well with her plans to create a new political party to contest the 2019 general elections. Khoza, who impressed as part of the ANC contingent in the SABC inquiry a year ago, quit the ANC dramatically in September, choosing the symbolic Liliesleaf farm as a venue for her announcement. She left the ANC facing disciplinary action following her decision not to vote along with the party position in support of President Jacob Zuma in a no-confidence vote in the National Assembly A total of five of her colleagues on the public service and administration committee subsequently rebelled against her chairmanship. Her criticism of Zuma, she said, had led to some comrades making life unbearable for her. “They break you on a daily basis. They also break your children. They were saying to my children I was part of the people who killed my husband.” Khoza said corruption had become institutionalised and tolerated within the ANC. “If we were to prosecute all known corruption cases, almost 80% to 90% of the ANC leadership at all levels of government would have to replace their shiny tailored suits and pretty  dresses with orange (correctional services) overalls. Their natural home is in prison.” This week she said in an interview that she would be announcing plans in the next few weeks to gather disaffected members from political parties such as the EFF, DA and the ANC. Khoza did not part on good terms from the ANC, which she said had become corrupt and alien to her. She vowed at the time to take the values and the mission of the ruling party and continue to “serve” the people. She vowed that she would not disappear, stating that she was a fighter and in her blunt assessment of other political parties gave an indication of her thinking. “I have great respect for the EFF, but we differ on nationalisation as I do not think nationalisation will work in the current situation. “Cope is now about (party) positions  and the DA is not pushing the African mission enough. I would not go to the IFP, it is like a dinosaur.” Yesterday the ANC in Parliament was gracious about Khoza’s political ambitions. “We wish her well. “It’s unfortunate that she left in the manner in which she did,” Nonceba Mhlauli said on behalf of ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu. The EFF and the DA have been among her strongest supporters in Parliament but DA national spokesperson Portia Adams declined to comment on Khoza’s plans to attract disaffected DA members to her yet unnamed political party. news@thenewage.co.za -Dennis Cruywagen  