OUTGOING ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe has appealed for unity in the Western Cape, the province he has called the smallest region of the party. Speaking at a Western Cape ANC general council meeting yesterday, Mantashe lashed out at using money to buy conference delegates and again spoke in favour of a managed succession where the party deputy president elected next month would become president later. He said about unity in Cape Town yesterday: “You don’t just pray for it, you work for it. The biggest enemy of the Western Cape is disunity. You hate each other with a passion. As long as you do that you will not recover because you will undercut each other all the time.” Although the Western Cape has the potential to be the fourth biggest province of the ANC, “it is the smallest now. You are the smallest today. As the smallest party you are responsible for 3.8% of members and therefore delegates. The only way you can influence a conference as a small province is with quality of debate and ideological clarity.” Mantashe told delegates who were at the PGC meeting to bring to the fore behind closed doors the presidential candidates that branches preferred that the ANC was testing a new formula in electing its national leadership. With the new recipe, the desire of branches should not be tampered with. “In the past, branches come to PGC and PGC has its own preference. We say PGC must consolidate the preference of the branches. This formula is intended to ensure we don’t tamper with the desire of branches.” Another motivation, he said, was to ensure that slate politics was diluted. “We are hoping delegates will be solid with the mandate of their branches. The question is whether they’ll execute the desire or not. We are in a time when money is used to buy delegates. “A vote all of a sudden is not a function of consciousness but a function of who offers the highest bid. Terrible. I hope delegates will not be bought over. “The ANC cannot be sold to the highest bidder. It’s not an auction. Sometimes we use a conference as an auction. It can’t be correct for the ANC.” Mantashe cautioned delegates that treating those with different leadership preferences as the enemy “shows how low our consciences have gone”. On the challenges facing the ANC, he said “the biggest challenge is the image and reputation of the ANC” where the party was seen as equal to corruption, looting, nepotism and connection with people in powerful positions. “The policies of the ANC are correct but the challenge is the image and reputation of the organisation. As we nominate eldership, society must see us as correcting. “The problem with looting state resources, you’re not stealing from the government, you are stealing from the poor. You are limiting the ability of the state to deliver resources.” About allegations that he was campaigning for one candidate, he said: “I’m talking the principle of managing transition. We can’t allow the ANC to be a free-for-all. You must not accuse me of campaigning for one candidate. “They must engage with the question. When we elect a deputy president in the coming conference, we must have succession in mind.” DENNIS CRUYWAGEN news@thenewage.co.za