TODAY is political activist Vuyisile Mini’s commemoration that will see the handover of the remains of 12 United Democratic Front (UDF) political activists in Port Elizabeth. The ANC member was hanged by the apartheid government in 1964. He was a gifted actor, dancer, poet and singer and is remembered for the songs he composed as well as his powerful bass voice. The MEC of the department of sport, recreation, arts and culture, Dr Pemmy Majodina, will lead the commemoration for Mini. Department spokesperson Andile Nduna said the repatriation programme was informed by the provincial policy on exhumation, repatriation and reburial of the remains of victims of conflict. “This is informed by the recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission that advocated symbolic reparation to ensure families of victims begin healing and finally find closure through programmes of this nature and magnitude,” Nduna said. He said the commemoration and handing over of remains will be conducted in three phases. This will include a wreath laying ceremony, handing over of exhumed remains of 12 UDF political activists and a Vuyisile Mini memorial lecture. Some of the songs that Mini composed during his treason trial include Thath’ umthwalo Bhuti sigoduke balindile umama no bab’ ekhaya (Take up your things Brother and let’s go, they are waiting, our mothers and fathers, at home). It came to take on new associations as the forced relocation policy of apartheid made black people refugees in the land of their birth. He is remembered for composing one of the most popular liberation songs of the 1950s, Bhasopa nants’indondemnyama Verwoerd (Look out Verwoerd, here are the black people). “Vuyisile Mini together with his prominent ANC members, Wilson Khanyingo, Zinakile Mkhaba and 12 UDF political activists, formed part of a large group of political activists from the Eastern Cape that were executed in Pretoria between 1960 and 1990 in a bid to derail and destroy the struggle for national liberation.” Nduna said the repatriation of the 12 UDF political activists is another attempt to promote reconciliation, unity, justice, nation building and social cohesion.Mini was born in 1920 in Port Elizabeth. Mini’s father was a Port Elizabeth dockworker active in labour and community struggles, which inspired Mini, at 17, to take part in protests against bus fare and rent increases. He was also active in campaigns against forced removals of black people from Korsten (where he lived) to Kwazakhele. After completing elementary school, he worked as a labourer and trade union organiser. His union comrades knew Mini as the “organiser of the unorganised”, because of his courage and tireless efforts to organise workers across the Eastern Cape during the increasingly repressive 1950s. Mini and his two comrades were offered their lives in exchange for information about sabotage activity in their area, but they refused. The three were sentenced to death, which provoked an international outcry. SISANDA MADWANTSI  sisandam@thenewage.co.za