&nbsp;A special investigation on cofferdam mining in Namaqualand found that West Coast Resources began the construction of cofferdams ahead of the approval by the DMR. This is the DMR s response to our queries: Was the DMR aware that cofferdam construction for West Coast Resources had commenced ahead of the approval of the Environmental Impact Assessment?An EA was granted to West Coast Resources on 7 April 2017 and they were made aware of the decision on 3 May 2017 to authorise the coffer dams below the low water mark. No appeal has been lodged up to date against the granting of the relevant EA. Can you confirm whether Alexkor has permission to construct cofferdams? Alexkor and West Coast Resources (Pty) Ltd have an approved Programme and Environmental Management Programme (EMPR) which is deemed to be an Environmental Authorization issued in terms of the latest NEMA amendments. The Alexkor one was approved in 1995 and the latest amendment for West Coast Resources was in 2009 for the area above the low water mark. The community alleges that the public participation process was inadequate. What is your response? Public participation is provided for in terms of section 22(4) (a) and (b) of the National Environmental Management Act. All stakeholders were able to participate during the public participation process. The PPP included, inter-alia, the following: A newspaper advertisement was placed in the local newspaper; Namakwalander Notices were placed at the project site Notices were sent to all key stakeholders and the registered interested and affected parties; Authorities&#8217; meetings; and Registration on a database for Background Information Documents (BID); Various meetings were held with the following entities during the consultation process: Diamond Coast Abalone (Pty) Ltd Department of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries Department of Water Affairs Northern Cape Provincial Coastal Committee (PCC) After consultation with the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coast) regarding the final EIAR as the competent authority for integrated coastal management; no comments were received from the relevant Department. The community alleges that the type of cofferdams constructed by both West Coast Resources and Alexkor will severely affect both the environment in the short term but unlikely that the coast could be rehabilitated? The environmental impacts associated with the mining activities were addressed by the proposed mitigation measures outlined in the EMPR. Several studies were undertaken and reports were written by the specialist who undertook the research. As per the reports, the mining activities are unlikely to cause irreversible or long-lasting adverse effects to any aspect of the coastal environment if satisfactorily mitigated, and the mitigation measures are stipulated in the EMPR. The information provided has shown that that pollution and degradation of the environment should and shall be avoided, or, where they cannot be altogether avoided, are minimised and remedied.