The state of the tripartite alliance will come under sharp focus during the SACP s 96th-anniversary rally in Kimberley on Sunday.Re-elected general secretary Blade Nzimande is expected to give the keynote address and touch on a number of issues pressing the party.Provincial party spokesperson Patrick Bosiame said Nzimande would be accompanied by office bearers and members of the central committee. The general secretary is likely to touch base on a lot of aspects, one of them being the outcomes of the congress we recently held in Johannesburg. He is also likely to talk about the decision of the party to contest the elections in 2019, Bosiane said.Bosiane said they were also expecting a message of support from alliance partners and the Young Communist League.Bosiame said the general secretary would also highlight some of the challenges the party faced, efforts to deal with social ills and the triple challenges of unemployment, inequality and poverty.Nzimande was re-elected unopposed during the SACP national congress in Gauteng earlier this month.He is among Cabinet ministers who called for President Jacob Zuma to resign. Nzimande has also been vocal on state capture issues.The party, along with Cosatu and Sanco called for Zuma to resign and endorsed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to take over during the elective conference.Meanwhile, the ANC in the province has also endorsed Ramaphosa to take over as president of the ANC at the national elective conference later this year.Chairperson Zamani Saul repeated the decision to nominate Ramaphosa during the provincial general council recently.He said since the 1950s, the ANC s deputy presidents had been the president after the tenure of the predecessor had come to an end.He said the national executive committee had officially opened the succession debate and that was why they had gone public to endorse Ramaphosa. We can freely have discussions on this matter. In the last provincial conference, we took the decision that as soon as this debate was officially opened, we were going to put up a point and argument that Cyril Ramaphosa should be the ANC president. In advancing this view, we said to ourselves that there is either two ways of handling this argument; the first way is the opportunistic way and the second way is the principled way. We did agree that we are going to take the principled approach and what informs us to take this approach is that since 1967 all presidents of the ANC were deputy presidents, Saul said.Saul said it was important for members to go to the conference with a clear mandate. We took the decision as the ANC in the Northern Cape that we are going to take a principled approach and nobody can accuse us of being opportunistic. We are saying towards the national conference, the starting point is for us is to evaluate the suitability of the deputy president. It s only when we are convinced that we ve got a disaster deputy president that we can look beyond him and ask who can take over. &#8211;TIISETSO MANOKO