The University of Cape Town (UCT) is now the first university on the continent to offer a degree specifically designed to equip students with the necessary skills and knowledge to embrace the technological revolution in the financial services sector.This amid reports that South Africa s financial services industry faced a significant challenge: the rise of modern technology, commonly labelled as financial technology, or fintech, combined with a lack of skilled graduates who are able to navigate this complex new terrain.The new degree is a master of data science with a specialisation in financial technology and would be offered for the first time next year. We are in constant contact with the financial services industry and know it is facing a shifting demand for skills. In the past, companies were mainly looking for advanced mathematical- and modelling skills. There still is demand for these skills, but by far the largest demand now is for students who have a thorough understanding of finance combined with a mastery of modern data analytics and software development skills. Our students will be able to develop these skills in the two most exciting areas of fintech: machine learning and block chain technologies, course convener Dr Co-Pierre Georg, senior lecturer at the African institute of financial markets and tisk management (AIFMRM) at UCT said.Over the years, machine learning had given the world self-driving cars, speech recognition, and a vastly improved understanding of the human genome. In the financial services industry, machine learning was used to analyse vast data sets, like to identifying a customer s credit profile, to identify profitable companies, or to find an optimal investment strategy. Students in the new UCT degree would master machine learning methods and develop their own applications using these methods.UCT said since the modern workplace required a broad set of skills from various disciplines, the new degree was highly interdisciplinary and convened together with the department of statistical science. Associate professor and head of the department, Francesca Little, outlined the idea behind the degree. We started the MSc in data science to give students a thorough understanding of the latest methods in statistical learning. This includes the extremely exciting field of machine learning and artificial intelligence. The idea then was to bring together UCT s best and brightest from other departments to design a degree that is truly special. We are delighted to partner with AIFMRM so that we are able to offer a specialisation in the new field of financial technology. The other topical focus of the degree was the revolutionary new blockchain technology that was behind new crypto currencies like Bitcoin.Blockchain was a broad technology that allowed companies to store information in a distributed and cryptographically secured database. This made it possible to store information in a way that was easily accessible and fully transparent but completely secure at the same time.The most famous application to date was Bitcoin, a cryptographic currency that recently saw a phenomenal surge in value as more and more applications became available.Other applications for blockchain technology ranged from automated supply-chain management over remittance- and other payment services up to health services and insurance. According to industry participants, consulting firms, think tanks and government organisations, blockchain had the potential to completely revolutionise the economy. We combine all these hard skills from technology and finance and add to them the magic ingredient that makes our degree truly unique: a strong focus on entrepreneurship. Our students will have the skills to not only work in the financial services sector, but to go out and start their own companies using what they have learned, Georg said. We partner with a fintech incubator in Cape Town to make sure that students will be embedded in the activities of some of South Africa s hottest new startups and most exciting fintech ventures. We see extraordinary demand for the degree already, also because Cape Town-based students can do the degree part-time. This is quite important to us since we want working finance professionals to be able to complete the degree and acquire the skills to thrive in a changing industry. For students who want to do the degree full time, we do offer full scholarships to ensure that nobody will be excluded financially, Georg said. Fintech offers a unique opportunity to radically transform the industry. Young startups are already challenging the incumbents and our students will be on the forefront of this technological revolution in South Africa. Our focus on entrepreneurship means that we will change the students mind set so that they not only want to go out and get a job, but also to go out and create a job, or a hundred. provinces@thenewage.co.za