Children as young as 13 years old were among the people who were rescued from a Wesselsbron farm in the west of the Free State yesterday.About 27 people were taken from plastic shelters that were allegedly set up by a farmer who had been working as a broker and duping people to come to the farming town with the promise of a job.The man is said to have sourced many of the people that were used as farm labourers from the North West.A total of 2000 people were believed to have been trafficked to various farms in the area.Yesterday the Nala local municipality rescued girls and boys from the age of 13 up to 17 who were enslaved there and paid only R3 whenever they were paid and had been eating carcasses from a nearby abattoir.Officials also found elderly people, aged between 61 and 80, who were also forced to work as labourers on the farm.They had apparently been working on the farm for many years.Officials were told that some of the girls were also used as sex slaves by some of the farmers from around the area.The discovery was made after the municipality received a tip-off about the farm.The human settlements department, the police, Nala local municipality and other stakeholders surprised the Driehoek farm in Wesselsbron yesterday morning to rescue the children and others who had been working there and on other farms for years.Nala mayor Theko Mogoje said the conditions they found there were inhumane and unbelievable.He said the shelter conditions were not even suitable as dwellings for animals. We found them living in plastic shelters with rotten food they were forced to eat because they were given nothing else. This cannot happen, especially in a democratic country. We will make sure that the law takes its course in dealing with the farmer, Mogoje said.The rural development department adviser, Zondani Noveld, said the children were not only being made to work illegally there but had been trafficked. What we heard was that the farmer takes children from Rustenburg, Mahikeng and surrounding areas in North West where he pretends to be a labour broker, he said. We visited this farm to rescue those children and they were eating rotten food from a nearby abattoir. Fresh meat was given to the lions which the farmer owns, he said.Noveld said they found 15 girls and 11 boys and several elderly people.Noveld said they found 15 girls and 11 boys and several elderly people. I am not yet sure about the number of elderly people as they were from other farms but we are still here on the farm, we will get the number later. He said they did not know the whereabouts of the man who had been bringing the people to the place but had opened a case with the police. We have opened cases of child labour and human trafficking against the farmer and we will make sure that all other farmers who have taken children and elderly people are also arrested, Noveld said.He said they also contacted social development and other departments to come to the rescue of the children. All the children will be taken to places of safety, Noveld said.beckers@thenewage.co.za