INVESTIGATIONS into the cause of the accident that left five miners trapped underground at the Harmony Gold s Kusasalethu mine near Carletonville will only take place once the rescue operations are concluded.These sentiments were expressed by the parliamentary portfolio committee on mineral resources chairperson Sahlulele Luzipo at the media briefing at the mine yesterday. For now we do not know if the cause was natural or not and therefore do not want to predict what caused the accident. We only know what might have caused it so the department will have to start the process of finding out the real cause of the ground fall. He said it was important that they find mechanisms to address the crisis faced generally in the mining industry. For now we are not going to preempt the normal processes on events or situations of this nature.We will endeavour to find solutions to make mining happen in a very productive and profitable manner with no effect to the lives of workers. In situations like this it does not help to blame anyone.We should rather focus on the mission now and once it is done, we should we pay respect to the affected families before we start with the other issues, Luzipo said.Harmony CEO Peter Steenkamp said statistics show the mining industry was safer than it was in the past. He said there had been improvements over the years as a result of incidents that happened in the past. Everything that comes out of the investigations and this kind of incident are actually taken into consideration to better the mines. There is a huge amount of technical design issues that have been done, he said.He said their mine will learn something from the incident that will help it improve and ensure its workers are safe at all times. Steenkamp said although the process to recover the remaining two workers was difficult and slow, they believed they were close to finding them.Harmony human resources executive Anton Buthelezi said the families were taken care of and offered support and counselling.Luzipo applauded the dedication of the rescue team by working around the clock to recover all the bodies. Three miners were recovered but have all succumbed to injuries and were identified by their families while two more still remain underground. The search continues.THABISO MACHAKA