FIVE years after their husbands were killed in the bloody Marikana strike, the widows on both sides of the divide are still unable to unite.Aisha Fundi, the wife of a Lonmin Mine security guard who was hacked, mutilated and burnt alive by the striking miners said she had to accept a job at the mine to be able to support her children.Fundi is one of the widows of 10 people, including two security guards and two police officers, who were killed by the miners days before a bloody confrontation between police and striking mineworkers in which 34 people lost their lives and many were wounded.Fundi told The New Age that although many of the widows, from both sides, have taken up jobs at the mine, they still do not mix and those whose husbands were not part of the strike are sidelined. We are struggling to find unity. We are not able to tell our story.We need unity more than anything, she said. Fundi s husband, Hassan, was originally from Malawi but lived in South Africa with his family.He and fellow security guard Frans Mabelane were deployed to prevent the hundreds of striking mineworkers from entering Lonmin premises as the strike intensified on August 12, 2012. Outnumbered and disarmed, they were attacked before being burnt alive inside their car.Yesterday, some of the widows gathered in Marikana where there was major confusion about the location of a memorial site. While those sympathetic to the mineworkers want Wonderkop in Nkaneng, the site of the confrontation between police and mineworkers, as the memorial site, others argue that people died at different parts of the mine.Lonmin revealed the first draft design of the Marikana Memorial and began the process of engaging with those affected to develop a collective, all-inclusive design. Lonmin CEO Ben Magara said they were also trying to engage other interested parties on the location.He said that the Nkaneng informal settlement belonged to the municipality and first needed to be declared formally as a memorial site. In that case we will also be able to provide infrastructure and bulk service, he said.Despite the Marikana Commission of Inquiry recommending that Lonmin Mine provide adequate housing and better living conditions for its employees, little has changed in Nkaneng informal settlement in the past five years.The commission found that working and living conditions contributed to the bloody conflict. The Nkaneng informal settlement, which is less than a kilometre away from the mine, comprises of migrant workers mostly from the Eastern Cape and Lesotho.Zukile Ziyoyo, who has been working in the shafts for the past six years said on top of living in squalor, the pain of not having gotten justice for the Marikana deaths adds to the burden the mining community carries every day. We were promised a clinic and such remains to be seen. People are still shifting blame but these are no solutions to assist the affected parties, he said.He said that the community was angry and continued to raise an angry generation. Our children continue to ask questions, he said. This morning thousands of mineworkers will gather at Wonderkop hill in remembrance of those who died at the hands of the police on August 16, 2012.KUTULLO MADISHA