SA FM news anchor Sisanda Jonas who graduated with a diploma in music education and media studies from the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University is passionate about keeping South Africans informed about the latest news developments in the world.Jonas began her broadcasting career at Umhlobo Wenene FM as a current affairs producer and moved to Johannesburg in 2007. Two years later she took on the airwaves for the first time as presenter of weekend PM Live on SA FM and as they say, the rest is history.The Port Elizabeth born presenter who was inspired by other female news anchors such as Noxolo Grootboom and others recently spoke to The New Age about her love for news and informing radio listeners on the latest breaking news and events. I used to watch Sis Noxolo Grootboom, Khanyi Dhlomo, Zodwa Nogilana, Tshepiso Makwetla and Mandlakazi Mphahlwa-Sigcawu. This was a childhood dream, I have always believed that one day I would do this and I m thankful to God that today I get to live out my dream. She says as a young woman growing up in Port Elizabeth she was inspired by these greats and eventually decided to take a leap of faith and auditioned for Umhlobo Wenene. I auditioned and was fortunate enough to get a call back and the rest, as they say is history, she said.Jonas said though the newsroom can sometimes be an unpredictable occupation as things sometimes change in a few split seconds, she appreciates the challenges and opportunities brought about by her job. I love the fact that I have the opportunity to speak to the nation and deliver the news of the day Things can change and you have to be ready for any technical glitches. In such cases, it is important to always be calm and collected and not to panic when things are not going according to plan, she said.Jonas said while things are improving for women in the media sector, more still needs to be done for women to realise their full potential. There is progress. We are seeing a number of women dominating the industry and holding their own. We see more women anchors, producers, sports journalists, writers and others. We are on the right path she said.She said that for her Women s Month means a celebration of the strength, beauty, and contribution of women in our society . This is a month where we put the spotlight on the role of women and their challenges. A time to reflect on the accomplishments and an opportunity to empower each other. With corporate South Africa being in the hands of middle-aged men who lead various industries, Jonas said women needed to be given a chance to contribute. We can only improve or prove ourselves when we are also playing on a level playing field, she said.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za