When he was 13-years old, Scelo Mncube found a letter left to him by his late mother.The letter simply informed him that the reason he was not allowed to ask about his father, was because his father was a rapist.The 25-year-old Mncube, is an author, motivational speaker and social media entrepreneur from Ntuzuma, eThekwini in KwaZulu-Natal. I found a secret that my mother had kept from me since birth when I was 13 years old. I remember asking my mother while growing up who my father was and she would say Jesus .I was confused but because I was a child I was not really bothered. My mother never spoke about my father but my siblings knew who their fathers were. In my case I was never allowed to ask, he said.Mncube was raised in a single-headed home by his late mother, with his two younger siblings. After his mother s death in 2006 when he was just 13 years old, his life took a drastic turn that brought misery in his life.He said he was evicted from his home following his mother s death and later moved to Eastern Cape to stay on his own after his aunt abandoned him.At some stage he was left homeless in when he was chased out of a house his aunt left him in, with strangers. I had nowhere else to go.I spent four years in the streets. One day a taxi driver spotted me and asked me to sleep in his taxi which he used to park at a garage and would in turn give me R10 a night, he said. I would save up that money to buy school shoes, clothes, food and books. I knew that education would be the only thing that would keep me off the streets. Much later I came across a woman at church who took me in as her own and paid for my schooling, after she heard my story, Mncube said.He said his life took a new turn after he entered a motivational speaker competition in 2013 on Ukhozi Fm and received a call from the late gospel singer Sfiso Ncwane. Ubhuti Sfiso heard me on radio and took me under his wing. He gave me a platform to share my talks. My first payment as a speaker came from him. He really helped me and I will forever be grateful, he said.Mncube said he had accepted the fact that he was conceived out of rape but refused to remain broken. Accepting was never easy. I had a lot of unanswered questions. I always yearned to hear the whole truth but I reached a dead end. I hated my mother so much for not telling me everything, I hated my family, siblings, everyone. But, that killed me a lot. I realised that this was purposely planned by God. I realised I was not alone, he said.He urged rape survivors to speak out. Women should not be scared to report any abuse they face. It is not their fault. Healing as a victim of rape is not an overnight thing but I encourage women and men to participate fully in their healing processes through counselling, Mncube said. My mother was raped and I was born but God had a greater plan. news@thenewage.co.za