A GROUP of 71 auxiliary nurses joined the public healthcare service in North West after successfully completing training.The assistant nurses were trained at the Witrand and Taung nursing schools and have the opportunity to upgrade their qualifications to become specialised nurses.At their graduation ceremony at Strydom Hall in Klerksdorp, the auxiliary nurses promised to carry forward the spirit of service shown by the mother of nursing, Florence Nightingale. Shining stars from the group were honoured and all 71 signed a pledge promising to uphold that best standards in nursing.Mooketsi Onkabetse Emcy won the overall best achiever in enrolment from the Taung Nursing School while Opperman Chaydene Chandile Etheljean won it for Witrand Nursing School.Speaking on behalf of the students, Gomolemo Mogwera said they promise to keep the Florence Nightingale light burning forever. We appreciate the opportunity we have been granted by the provincial health department and we also thank our teachers and lecturers for being our parents away from home, Mogwera said. We are proud to say we support the 90, 90, 90 TB &amp; HIV strategy in our small way. This is the beginning of our careers and it is upon us to become responsible nurses. Let us not allow anyone to look down on us or discourage us in any way. The enrolled nursing auxiliaries (ENA) group called R2176 comprised a total of 39 graduates from Taung Nursing School and 32 graduates from Witrand Nursing School.In her keynote address at the ceremony, former mayoral committee member for health in Dr Kenneth Kaunda district and the current chairperson of Klerksdorp Tshepong Hospital board, Nonzaliseko Mendela, applauded the graduates for a job well done. We are proud of you, I must say and this is also a proud moment for you. This is a transition period for you. From now on, you ll become the doers and the achievers and the masters of your journey. Where you are heading to now, there will be joy, but there will also be challenges, Mendela said. The nursing profession is not all about the salary, in fact the job that you will be doing cannot be matched with the salary that you will be getting. Your salary will be like a stipend but you need to make peace with that so that you can become good nurses. Mendela also motivated the new ENA graduates to follow in the footsteps of Nightingale. Today as we are going to have this ceremony, you are going to be given the lamp and the light, you are going to be led on the nurses pledge that will take you from Florence Nightingale, the nurse who was dedicated to her job and took care of the soldiers during her times, by the light of her lamp.Today when you are reminded of her, you are going to be reminded of your duties and the task that is in front of you. You might shed a tear, but let it be to say help me God that I practice my profession with due diligence, when you wipe your face, it should be about that and not about getting into the market and getting a salary. She said there was need for nurses to understand the physiology of a person in detail so that they discharge their duties in a better way. You will never practice your nursing if you don t know your physiology, otherwise a lot of patients will die if you leave your physiology in the classroom. Overloading drugs to a patient with already damaged liver cells is actually killing that patient, so a nurse must really understand physiology. The Klerksdorp Tshepong Hospital board member also used the opportunity to thank nursing lecturers who took their time to teach the auxiliaries. I want to give a special appreciation for a job well done to the lecturers. We have this beauty in front of us this morning because of their efforts, because of their encouragement, because of their sleepless nights thinking of what they can do to shape the students to be ready to face the challenges that are there in the department of health. Today the lecturers are enjoying the fruits of their sleepless nights. You are like a factory in this department, because you are manufacturing the human resource for the department of health. Without you, we would not be having nurses in this country. Can you imagine the hospital without a nurse, it would be like the night without a day. ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za