WHILE rape, femicide and domestic violence remain a scourge against women, Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula yesterday urged police to take a severe stance against gender based violence and apply the six point plan effectively.Mbalula held an action indaba on gender based violence and protection of vulnerable groups in Erasmia, Pretoria. He said women were often not given a chance to report domestic violence and sexual harassment, which was why changing this and making it less traumatic was a priority. The continued perpetuation of these crimes emanates from the cases that get withdrawn and not reported. Often victims say they were chased away from police stations or their case was not treated seriously or they were viewed with suspicion, re-victimised, humiliated or simply ignored by our police, he said.Mbalula said that police should help communities and vulnerable groups to understand their rights and expectations so that they could account effectively. We must reduce the gap between reported and unreported incidents of sexual offences and domestic violence, this will be a boost to efforts to prevent such violence, he said.He said all police stations would have the six point plan posted on their walls so that they were exercised daily. The six point plan includes that all victims be treated with respect, dignity and interviewed by a trained police official in a victim sensitive manner.It says that victims should be assisted in a victim friendly room or an alternative room where the statement will be taken in private. Mbalula said that victims of violence had to have confidence when filing a police report to receive justice and ensure the perpetrator would be punished. Each beating is a potential murder, each domestic sexual abuse of a child is a potential rape and infanticide. We are at a crossroads and the route we choose must be the one that rejects intimate partner violence, a route that rejects harassment of the LGBTQI community, we must reject gender based violence in all its forms. This rejection starts with the departments I lead, Mbalula said.During the indaba, Mbalula emphasised that rape survivors had to have rapid access to a health clinic to administer emergency medical care, including treatment to prevent HIV and unintended pregnancies, and counselling. A woman who is beaten by her husband or boyfriend must have some place to go with her children to have safety, sanity and shelter. The government must make that available. I am instructing police management to make this a priority in our budgetary matters, he said.Mbalula said that police had no time to waste and should have a clear action plan, with clear deliverables and responsibilities.dikeledir@thenewage.co.za-Dikeledi Ramabopa