A pregnant woman has been assaulted by a policeman at Ivory Police station, Tembisa. The woman , Precious Chauke , went to fetch the car key from her husband after he was arrested for drunk driving on Saturday night.When she arrived at the police station, she alleges that her husband was being assaulted by two policemen. W hen she asked why they assaulted her husband, one policeman allegedly slapped h er.The woman said the police officers at the reception refused to open an assault case against the man who assaulted her.In her statement, the woman says she went to Midrand Police station to open the assault case b ut the case was referred back to Ivory Police station where the assault took place. The police officers that were at the reception refused to open a case of assault against him. But in Midrand the policeman who helped me open a case included that in my affidavit, said Chauke.The woman said she then was told to go to Ivory Police station to point out the man who slapped her on Saturday night.One police officer , who did not want to named because he is not authorised to speak to the media , confirmed that a woman tried to open a case of assault at the Ivory Park Police station. The policeman said the woman had a bad attitude towards the police. There s no way the police can refuse to open a case for you. Apparently she had an attitude when the police arrested her man. For this matter to get to assault is within the police s right. The police can not just slap you when you speak with them nicely. What must the police do when she prevents them from arresting her man, said the policeman.When asked to give more information on this case the policeman then told us to refer all the questions to the police spokesperson. Police spokesperson Captain Bernard Matimulane confirmed the case of common assault had been opened at the station. We can confirm we have a case of common assault opened against one of our members regarding the alleged incident. The circumstances surrounding what happened on Saturday night are part of the investigation and everything surrounding that will be investigated, said Matimulane.Matimulane said the woman was invited at the police station to point out the policemen who allegedly assaulted her as part of the investigation. On Wednesday, the woman confirmed that she pointed out the policeman who allegedly assaulted her. I did go to the station today and point out the policeman who assaulted me. They also printed out the pictures of the three police officers who were at the reception who refused to help me open a case, said Chauke.-TNA Reporter