A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for South African small businesses, startups and entrepreneurs to turn their ideas into a solid business starts today at Africa s first three-day Global Entrepreneurship Congress (GEC) taking place in Johannesburg at the Sandton Convention Centre.The GEC is an inter-disciplinary gathering of startup champions from more than 150 countries and attracts over 4000 delegates. These delegates represent distinct components of their entrepreneurial ecosystems and are focused on how best to help entrepreneurs start and scale new companies.The congress has previously been held in the US, UAE, China, UK, Brazil, Russia and Italy.Now, South Africa is proud to be the first African country to host the event.This is one of the best ways to breathe new energy into your existing company while creating opportunities to network with leading minds in industry.Entrepreneurs who are serious about business growth and continuous development will make it a point to attend the congress to gain new ideas and exposure and learn about new tools to boost performance.Addressing the pre-GEC pitching competition National Finale yesterday, the Minister of Small Business, Lindiwe Zulu, said this initiative was part of highlighting the passion and innovation of South African entrepreneurs. The GEC has competitive pitching sessions on the exhibition floor, for entrepreneurs to present their business cases to delegates and investors. Today is a very exciting day for South Africa and the African continent, Zulu said. It marks the first day of the GEC the world s largest conference and exhibition for entrepreneurs, investors and policymakers bringing together 160 countries. We are proud to host this exciting event. This is the first time an African country is hosting this global congress, Zulu said.She said the GEC is an opportunity for South Africa to showcase the passion and potential of small businesses in the country and the continent. All South African entrepreneurs must make sure that they leave the appetite of delegates to come back, see more, learn more, and get more of the international deal flow coming from Africa, Zulu said. This year, entrepreneurs will be given an opportunity to present their business ideas to a delegate audience of 6000 people of renowned researchers and more than 800 international investors. We hope that it will ignite an entrepreneurial energy like never seen before. As South Africa, it is important that we fully embrace these technological shifts that will alter business success going forward. It also becomes important that SMMEs and cooperatives embrace this radical reshaping of the relationship between technology capabilities and business opportunities. World Bank 2015 country indicators said small businesses in South Africa represent 98% of total registered businesses but only contribute 49.4% to GDP and employ 63.76% of the total workforce.By contrast, Zulu said in terms of South Africa, with more developed economies, you will find that SMMEs in the more stable economies are performing well, representing 70% to 99% of the total business sector and employing 60% to 85% of the total workforce. As the government, we see young entrepreneurs as national assets to be cultivated, motivated and remunerated to the greatest possible extent. Entrepreneurs can change the way we live and work, she said. We would like to thank the GEC partners who worked tirelessly to ensure that South African entrepreneurs are ready to compete on the world stage. All local entrepreneurs and small businesses make sure that you don t miss out on this opportunity. TNA Reporterbusiness@thenewage.co.za