The ANC in Johannesburg has applauded the arrest of four suspects linked to an RDP houses syndicate, reiterating the party s commitment to fighting fraud and corruption.Two Johannesburg housing officials were arrested while at work on Friday, along with two accomplices .ANC greater Johannesburg spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said if ANC councillors were found to be involved in corruption, as an organisation, they would not hesitate to discipline them in line with the ANC code of conduct. People must not doubt us, we dismissed a councillor who was found guilty of selling land in Diepkloof in 2014, Matongo said.He said the party would support anyone who fought crime and corruption including Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba. The suspects appeared in the Johannesburg Specialised Commercial Crimes Court and were released on R5000 bail each. The case has been postponed to April 11.Mashaba said: A syndicate working in collusion with the department of housing, municipal officials and a councillor started allocating stands to people at a fee wherein unsuspecting individuals bought the stands. A similar modus operandi applied to the allocation of RDP houses. He said many of the victims had already constructed houses on illegally sold land. It is disgraceful that officials and politicians were taking advantage of our people s desperation for their own enrichment, Mashaba said.The arrests followed an investigation by the HAWKS, the prosecuting authority and the city s anti-corruption unit, headed by Shadrack Sibiya. I am informed that these arrests are only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to housing corruption in the city and we expect a number of further arrests to be made in the near future, he said.Mashaba said the city faces major housing challenges after inheriting a housing backlog of more than 300000 units. The city is only able to build about 3500 houses a year. This means that it will take almost a century to catch up with the current backlog alone. This is simply unsustainable and it is clear that something has to change in our approach if we are to ensure that our people s right to adequate housing is realised, Mashaba said.He announced that for the first time in the city s history they have completed a housing list. Mashaba said the list is being audited to ensure that its integrity is beyond reproach. Once this process has been finalised, I will announce how this list will be made publicly available to ensure that this list cannot be abused. The housing backlog in the city is a reality that faces all of us, hence the ANC has told the people about our capacity to build housing and the rate at which we build. Gauteng is a land-locked province so we decided to build high-rise buildings instead of individual houses, Matongo said.NTOMBI NKOSI