In a bid to encourage people to see money differently, Nedbank is repositioning itself as the bank using its expertise to see money differently .The financial institution officially launched its new profile at the world s largest design festival the 2017 Design Indaba in Cape Town last week.The bank challenged 40 emerging creatives to see money differently and to use their ingenuity to solve prevalent socio-economic challenges.The winning concept by Titus Khoza received R100000 in funding.His project involves a sustainable means of making sanitary pads with distribution achieved on a larger scale. I saw the need when I heard about the issues young girls face. Some even miss school because they do not have sanitary pads. My research led me to a machine worth R250000 that mass produces sanitary pads and that is when I decided to enter Nedbank s competition.Khoza says that he wants to make a positive impact on women s welfare. It s not right that young girls are forced to miss school due to menstruation. It s unreal to me that in this day and age, we haven t found sustainable solutions to this issue. Nedbank said that the Reimagine money campaign was not a marketing initiative but a reflection of the continuing business evolution at the bank. It seeks to ensure that our clients experience our brand in line with our brand promise. We live in a volatile and unprecedented socio-economic environment. This is the time for us to intensify our commitment to build on our expertise of enabling clients to navigate challenges and meet their goals, the company said.The bank said its new positioning is informed by almost two years of research and client engagement that revealed that people want to work with purpose-driven institutions they can trust.They want a professional financial partner that balances its expertise with a genuine commitment to do good. The public will see a number of changes in the next few months as the bank evolves its corporate identity, advertising and communication campaigns, as well as its products, services and channels. All these changes are designed to inspire clients and society to see money differently and partner with the bank to achieve their goals .Buli Mbha, head of group advertising at the bank, said the initiative was about using their financial expertise to create a better world. Its our third year of partnership with Design Indaba and this was the year we asked emerging creatives to find a socio-economic issue and through being an innovation partner with us to bring it to life. We believe that we cannot be a thriving bank in an economy that is struggling, therefore we had to ask ourselves what part we are playing to stimulate the economy, she said.Mbha hailed the business of rebranding the bank as an initiative to form a unanimous view on what it stands for a financial expert that does good and a bank that is challenging the potential of money and all its possibilities.THELMA NGOMAthelman@thenewage.co.za