As South Africa mourns the passing of ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada many political parties have expressed their sadness.Kathrada died on the early hours of Tuesday morning at the Donald Gordon Hospital in Johannesburg after after a short period of illness, following surgery to the brain.COPE spokesperson Dennis Bloom said: &#8220;We are very saddened, Kathrada dedicated the pleasure of his youth. He is one man that should never be forgotten in the history of this country.&#8220;We are very sad that he had to go when things are not in the way that he and stalwarts of this country would have hoped for, We know that he was not very happy to see what is happening in the country today. Kathrada dedicated all his life for freedom, we will never compromise what he stood for, may his soul rest in peace,&#8221; said Bloom.&#8220;On behalf of the UDM we wish to pass our condolences to the family, the foundation and chief organisation the ANC. The first time I met Katy was in 1989 after he was released, he and other leader were welcomed in Umtata,&#8221; said UDM President Bantu Holomisa.Kathrada was a member of that generation of South African leadership which made a post-apartheid world conceivable. His commitment to core values was unshakeable, inspiring a lifetime of service and informing a rejection, right to the end, of the abuse of power in any form.He worked with Former President Nelson Mandela on Long Walk to Freedom at the outset (1975) and at the end (1994). He co-created the Robben Island Museum. He published many personal memories. He served long years on structures supporting national orders. He founded an organisation, the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, committed to deepening long traditions of non-racialism. The list of his memory work is long.Chairman of the Nelson Mandela Foundation Njabulo Ndebele said: &#8220;The sadness felt by the Nelson Mandela Foundation and everyone associated with it at the passing of Ahmed Kathy Kathrada is inexpressible. He was a comrade, associate and close friend of Nelson Mandela s through seven decades. And he was a much-loved trustee of the Foundation s for many years.&#8220; Mr K , as he was affectionately known at the Foundation, played a pivotal role both in the establishment of the organisation in 1999 as Mr Mandela s post-presidential office and in its later growth as an NGO promoting social justice through dialogue and memory work. He was our wise counsellor, our stern critic, our best friend.&#8221;Ndebele added that they will remember him, fundamentally, as the embodiment of promise for a liberatory future, as he worked for that future to the end, walked the walk and never wavered.&#8220;We miss him already, and always will. We thank his beloved Barbara and everyone else who gave him the strength he needed always to go the extra mile,&#8221; he said.TNA Reporter