HIGH school pupils are the second largest group that forms an alarming number of alcohol and substance abusers in the country.The South African National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (Sanca) said the alarming conclusion is that the highest density of addiction is among 22-35 year old patients at 41%, almost half the addiction population. The second largest group is 14-17 year olds, therefore, individuals in high school from Grade 8 to Grade 11. This reflects the group with the highest school dropout numbers as well. The unfortunate fact is that there are limited inpatient treatment facilities for this age group, Sanca said.With the inpatient treatment for this age group being limited, the research group said the demand for treatment is far greater than the resources available. One of the reasons could be that service users in this age group also fall within the regulations and stipulations of the Children s Act (38/2005) with additional minimum norms and standards making the establishment and maintenance of services extremely expensive. A 17-year-old alcohol drinker said he would not blame it on peer pressure as it is him that ended up drinking at the end of the day. I started drinking alcohol when I was 15, my parents have warned me to stay away from it but I had fear of missing out on what is there that they did not want me to taste, said the 17 year old.He said that he never enjoyed drinking alcohol if he was not also holding a cigarette on the other hand. Concerned parent Zama Mkhize said children should not be drinking alcohol at this age, but they are doing it because alcohol is easy to get. You might find that a child is reserved but whenever they get to school they feel pressured by their peers at school. However I can add that socio-economic factors play a bigger role as well, Mkhize said.Education expert Elias Mathipa said this is a societal thing as these things are there in communities, so children need to be raised in morally and ethically correct communities . The problems that are faced by school pupils are not unique, they are there in communities. If the community is not looking after its future generation this is always the case. Children follow examples from their parents as they are their role model. For example, if a child sees parents throwing parties and thinks it is a good thing to do or follow, Mathipa said.Sanca said South Africa would have to seriously rethink prevention and early intervention strategies among the ages 14-17, maybe even earlier. The next age group of 18-21 years should be exposed to more life skills and work skill programmes in order to lay a foundation for a possible career option. This could cause a decline in drug use as well as unemployment for the age groups 22 to 35 years, according to Sanca.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za