Moses Mashwahla Moreroa wears many hats, as a business professional, life coach, mentor, facilitator and author. The Limpopo-born “Information Giant”, as he sometimes refers to himself, uses his gift and experience to shape and transform the profession of communication and community development. The 26 year old will be launching his book, Success Comes in Seven Pieces, on October 14. With this book, Moreroa uses his experience as a professional communicator and social entrepreneur to tell readers about the way humans formulate meanings and generate perspectives that create opportunities and failures in life. The book is organised in seven user-friendly chapters, which Moreroa has christened the pieces of success, through fresh yet effective language, which allows him to drive his ideas home and cut through life and its sharp unexpected and dramatic changes from covering culture, business, psychology and education. The guide contains well thought out life lessons where every chapter will require the reader to relate to their own story. Born and bred in a village called Segwashi in Ga-Mamabolo, the young author said that the book would serve as a resource to readers, to help them aim at success. “It is an excellent resource for anyone who dares to read. “Discover your situation, uncover your purpose, aim at success, put your act together, get help, start doing and have faith and courage,” Moreroa said Each chapter will teach the basics of learning to make something great out of every situation. It will help readers with issues of slow growth, negativity from others and most importantly, negativity within oneself as well as teaching readers to confront their fears while reshaping their lifestyles and managing their relationships. In the first piece, there is a section where readers are taught how to steer their “ship”, which has three components; friendship, relationship, and entrepreneurship. It takes the reader through all stages of life from infancy, adolescence, adulthood, career choices, moulding your career and retirement. Very practical in nature, the book offers various models the reader can apply to achieve their dreams. The chapters are linked from the first to the last. Your job is to read and discover the stage of your life and take it from there. MPHO KOBELI provinces@thenewage.co.za