A FIRE engine came under attack in Nyanga and The Cape Town fire and rescue service said the tanker was stoned on Monday night while returning from an incident. The service s Theo Lane said such attacks were becoming more frequent. Staff members were not injured but they were traumatised, Lane said. Both staff members had to be taken off duty for the remainder of the shift. Last month in another incident, Cape Town firefighters were forced to withdraw briefly from a blaze raging in Rylands, after some residents turned on them. We had no idea what made the crowd so volatile, Layne said, describing the frightening events during a blaze at Pooke se Bos informal settlement. One man died in the fire in the settlement between Bonteheuwel and Athlone, east of Cape Town and 52 dwellings were gutted.At least 127 people were displaced and are relying on food and bedding donated by a local foundation. However, the toll may have been worse if the situation had not calmed down enough to let the 36 firefighters in nine fire vehicles return, Layne said.Meanwhile, firefighters had to leave Phumlani Village in Grassy Park after their fire engines were stoned by some community members in February. A shack blaze broke out. Fire and rescue service spokesperson Tracy Whittaker said officials had to be escorted out of the area by police. The city s service responded to an incident but had to be escorted out due to the area being volatile. These incidents saw paramedics visit Worcester to disband notions that they hurt naughty children.ER24 spokesperson Annine Dormehl said: In areas of Worcester, children will run away from an ambulance because parents threaten that paramedics will do them harm when they are not behaving. During their visits, paramedics offered free glucose and blood pressure checks. Our focus is on going into communities to show them that paramedics are approachable and are there to assist the community, Dormehl said.ER24 s efforts also followed several attacks on paramedics in the province while on the job. In January, 80 attacks on Western Cape paramedics had been recorded between September 2015 and September last year.Paramedics had been barred from entering certain areas without a police escort, provincial health department spokesperson Zimkhitha Mquteni said at the time. During her state of the province address in February premier Helen Zille expressed concern over the attacks on paramedics. Zille said this was unacceptable. We have designated 10 red zones in our city where EMS staff will enter only with a police escort, she said. We appeal to communities to work with us to protect our staff. provinces@thenewage.co.za-Tatenda Chiriseri