SCARCITY of antiretrovirals in the mountain kingdom of Lesotho has forced some people to move to South Africa to receive ARV treatment.Although the health department in the province could not confirm the numbers in their system, the medical migration, which happens especially in the Free State due to its close proximity to Lesotho, has been taking place for years.It is believed that hundreds of Lesotho residents are receiving ARVs in the province.The department said foreigners also had access to the lifesaving treatment.Health department spokesperson Mondli Mvambi said, unfortunately, the system was not designed to tell foreigners from South African citizens. When we collect patients details we do not distinguish between SA citizens and others, they just form part of our statistics. Our data only tells us the number of people on ARV. It tells us that they are men, women and children, Mvambi said.He said when the ARV programme started in April 2004 and for the first year, the province initiated about 2700 patients. By 2010 the province had 91446 clients on ARVs and at the end of the 2016-17 financial year, the province had 215354 clients on ARVs, Mvambi said. In the past six years, we have more than doubled the number of people on ARVs, currently 79% of people living with HIV who knows their HIV status are on treatment and we are moving to 90% of people by 2020. Those who come to the province for treatment said it was due to the scarcity of the ARVs in their country.They said they were hoping the newly elected government under the leadership of Prime Minister Tom Thabane would speed up the process of buying the ARVs and implement it in the same way South Africa was doing.A Mafeteng woman, who travels to Pelonomi Hospital in Bloemfontein each month, said to access the medication she had to use the local address of a relative. We do have capsules in our country but they are very scarce so I had to travel to Bloemfontein to receive the treatment to live for my children. If we can have more in our country I will stop travelling to Free State, the mother of five said.Another Lesotho woman, who has relocated to Bloemfontein to gain access to ARVs, said she would not return to Lesotho.She works in a hair salon and said the only reason she was in the country was for the medication. If I did not come here I would have been dead by now, she said. I do not see any point of going back home to get ARVs because I am now living here and only go home to see my family, the 28-year-old woman said.A Lesotho man who is a hawker in Bloemfontein CBD said he learnt while still working in the Welkom mines that he was HIV positive. I went to the local clinic where I asked for ARVs but I was told that Lesotho nationals are not allowed to be given ARVs and I was so devastated and even wanted to commit suicide, he said.The 42-year-old man said he left his job and went back home where he wanted to stay and die. I later heard from others that we were allowed to get ARVs so I came back to Free State knowing that I would now live longer as I was traumatised and sick with no hope, he said.Speaking to The New Age, Lesotho Prime Minister Tom Thabane said before the coup two years ago there was a programme in place to implement ARV distribution and it also planned to expand.Thabane said since then there was another government and he did not know how it worked. So we are still in talks about the ARVs situation with our health minister.We will have a full report soon on what happened after we left the government and what is happening now. We need to help our own people. We started to make many changes and surely we will not disappoint our people, Thabane said.beckers@thenewage.co.za