THREE women with the same vision to thrive in the accounting industry have joined heads to run their 100% female and black-owned auditing, accounting and advisory firm in Cape Town.The three chartered accountants Althea Dlamini, 37, Susan Lapoorta, 36 and Jacqueline Lapoorta, 32 who own the young, fresh and dynamic firm Kuhumelela (a word derived from Tsonga, meaning progressing and moving forward) chartered accountants and advisors are competing with the top auditing firms in South Africa.The women are from the Northern Cape and strive to provide disadvantaged youngsters with employment. They are adamant their firm provides quality services and value for money. We are passionate about providing a quality service to our clients. We are passionate about providing disadvantaged youth a career in the field of accounting, finance and auditing, Susan Lapoorta said. Althea and Susan completed their articles at SizweNtsaluba Gobodo as we were bursary recipients of the firm. After completing articles we moved on to work for international companies and gained experience abroad as well.We feel that SizweNtsaluba Gobodo gave us an opportunity to pursue our dream of becoming charted accountants. We wanted to give other previously disadvantaged youth the same opportunity we received, Jacqui Lapoorta said. We strongly believe in black excellence and transformation of our industry. We believe these opportunities are available in South Africa. One of the biggest challenges for us was to break into the industry as prospective clients are normally prone to consider the established firms. Building relationships with clients and building your brand in the industry is challenging, Dlamini said.Lapoorta said their niche of this business was accessibility of the directors of the business to clients, as the directors were always part of the team providing the service. It takes commitment, hard work and perseverance to start any company. It s never easy, but it is worth it, Susan Lapoorta said. The firm has branches in Cape Town and Estcourt, KZN, and are looking at opening a branch in Johannesburg.provinces@thenewage.co.za-Keitumetsi Motlhale