The North West province has reported its first case of bird flu.This comes months after the disease, affecting mainly poultry, had been reported in other provinces.The department of rural, environment and agricultural development confirmed on Wednesday that there has been an outbreak of high pathogenic avian influenza (H5N8) or bird flu in the Rustenburg area.The disease was picked up in domesticated wild birds in the Bo-dorp residential area.It involves wild ducks and about 60 other birds including canaries, swans and parrots in the vicinity of immediate risk.Department spokesperson Emelda Setlhako said the disease was detected after the deaths of ducks that were kept at a homestead. The ducks had since been sent to the laboratory for further testing by a private veterinarian. The birds are kept for recreational purposes and are privately owned, Setlhako said.She said a dedicated team from the department has been dispatched to deal with the infected household to avoid the spreading of the disease. A different team of officials has also been deployed to collect information using the community policing forum communication network. This surveillance has started already. An area of 1km from the index point has been demarcated as a zone for surveillance. Setlhako said the affected household has been put under quarantine and the terms explained to the owner. The owner was also advised on bio-security measures that were to be taken to prevent the spreading of the virus to neighbouring houses by humans and also by faeces of effected birds. They have also been advised to secure their bird nets to prevent wild birds from entering them. The department has assisted the affected family with an affective disinfectant that kills the virus to be able to disinfect their property and the tools they will be using to clean bird cages and collect faeces. The department allayed fears that the disease could have spread to the bigger Rustenburg area, making poultry products unsafe. The big trading facilities identified in Rustenburg are all outside a 7km radius from the outbreak index point and all of them have been officially informed of the outbreak and therefore asked to take additional precautionary bio-security measures, Setlhako said.She further said the outbreak has not affected trade in a negative way since all facilities that trade with poultry and poultry products are outside a 7km radius of the outbreak and have also been asked to upgrade their bio-security measures.The department has communicated the outbreak to all affected stakeholders including veterinarians and farmers and the provincial disaster management committee is said to be on high alert as well. We would like to advise the local community to cover their bird feed and water to avoid attracting wild bird to them. The community at large is requested to report any mortality of birds that is noticed to the nearest state veterinary offices, Setlhako said.elfast@thenewage.co.za