FAMILIES, mining tycoons and colleagues of five miners who died at the Kusasalethu Mine last month gathered to attend a memorial service in Carltonville yesterday.The five men were trapped 3.1m underground for days. Their bodies were recovered days apart by rescuers. Yesterday, thousands of miners came together with the families, Harmony management, department of mineral resources and mining unions to commemorate the lives of the five miners during a memorial service at the mine, yesterday.A man who lost his 38-year-old brother in the tragedy spoke on behalf of all the bereaved families and said: We ask ourselves where these men were working, why was there no escape route for them to run to, in case of emergency, or even a place for air to enter.What we saw in these men was shocking. The state they were in when they came out, we could not even recognise them. President of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu), Joseph Muthunjwa, said the mining industry had been a death trap for mineworkers for a long time. Amcu is mourning the deaths of its members, comrades, friends, colleagues and siblings. Our hearts are filled with grief. We dedicate the memory of our colleagues to refining our health and safety programmes.We engage the employers in the sector to ensure that there is a strong correlation, he said. He said the union would continue to engage the social partners to strengthen regulations to hold mine bosses accountable for operation in their mines.Harmony Gold chairperson Patrice Motsepe said should any of their mines be found to be unsafe they would be closed down. If our mines cause deaths and are in fact unsafe and unhealthy, we have to close them down.The money and profit we make is not more important than the lives of our people. I understand our people need jobs. I know it s a tough one because there are no jobs but we should not be satisfied when the safety and health of our people is compromised, we should rather redeploy them to safer mines, he said.Motsepe expressed condolences to the families and assured them they were not alone. Now that we have gathered here altogether, tomorrow when the families return to their respective homes, it can be easier for us to focus on the duties we have.We need the working committee so that we do not forget these families, he said. Mineral Resources Minister, Mosebenzi Zwane, said the government would fight to bring an end to deaths experienced in the mining industry. We are peaceful people, who always preach peace but we are also churchgoers. But if we have to roll up our sleeves and get ourselves into the fights to stop these killings, we are ready to do that as government, he said.He said the accidents should be a turning point in how health and safety is dealt with in the industry. We will begin to be tougher on regulating safety at our mines. We know South Africans will support us in this regard, Zwane said.Harmony s executive corporate and investor relations, Marian van der Walt said: Investigations into the incident, involving representatives of the company, organised labour and the health and safety directorate of the department of mineral resources will take place soon. THABISO MACHAKA news@thenewage.co.za