Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has said her department is ready for this year s matric examination. The minister said the department worked very hard to prevent irregularities this year. Question papers have been set and externally moderated, she said To avert leakage of 2017 question papers, all 212 storage points across the country have been audited to ensure compliance with the minimum security standards. Storage points that do not comply will not be allowed to store question papers, said Motshekga. She said that 636,814 candidates registered full-time while 161,475 candidates registered for part-time.The minister took a swipe at teachers who continue to beat up learners at schools. Corporal punishment is an issue that has one again raised its ugly head, we have seen extremely disturbing videos emerge on social media of disgusting misconduct by teachers. We have had reports from a number of provinces on different forms of corporal punishment that is still taking place in schools despite it being outlawed for more than 20 years, said Motshekga. It is evident by the emergence of the viral videos and reports from learner organisations that corporal punishment is still taking place in schools. Disturbing statistics indicate that over 50% learners have experienced corporal punishment at some point in their schooling and that it is on the increase.&#8220;South African schools are currently challenged by violence and disciplinary issues and these challenges including disrespect, absenteeism, late coming, neglect of school work, stealing, fighting, drug trafficking and initiation practices are not limited to learners alone, she said.Motshekga expressed her concern over the continued shutdown in Vuwani. Matric students missed their preliminary exams due to the shutdown and it is likely to continue should the residents demand are not met. We are concerned that the situation in Vuwani has not changed. The shutdown is still in place and schools are still closed. What concerns us the most is the fact that the disruptions have affected learners particularly those in Grade 12 as they could not finish writing their preliminary examinations. In total there are 29,000 learners including 1,600 matriculants whose future is in jeopardy. Earlier this week we presented a catch-up plan to the Portfolio Committee which we hope to implement when the situation improves. We hope that the continued engagement between stakeholders will yield some positive outcomes that will create a conducive environment for learning and teaching to resume, said Motshekga.-TNA Reporter