The African National Congress in Johannesburg has told the South Gauteng High Court that it has lost confidence in Council speaker Vasco Da Gama after it accused him of unlawfully refusing to put forward a motion of no confidence in mayor Herman Mashaba. On Tuesday the ANC took to the court to compel Da Gama to table its motion which is scheduled to take place on Wednesday during the council meeting as well as to have motion through a secret ballot. “When the motion is submitted, it’s the duty of the council to see whether this can be done or not, however, the speaker was unlawful because he refused to put forward the motion,” said Advocate William Mokhari SC representing the ANC. “Only the council can refuse or accept by voting in favour of the motion or not. However the speaker has the powers to table such motions and it is also the speaker that can advise whether the voting can be through a secret ballot or open ballot,” he added. When questioned by Judge Sydwel Shangisa whether rules of the council allow for voting to take place through a secret ballot as Da Gama, Mokhari said they could not accept his refusal to put the motion on the agenda and call it unlawful. The ANC legal representative added that a councillor may submit a motion and each motion must be considered by the programming committee for it to be heard. ” An amendment of rules is dealt with inside council so that it can be debated, which may include voting and there is a book of rules in the council where if the speaker is unsure of the rules they can refer to it,” said Mokhari. Meanwhile mayor Herman Mashaba’s legal representative Advocate Dali Mpofu SC argued that the matter was not urgent. The second issue, our view we want the court to make a pronouncement that this should not be dealt with urgently. ” There are only 17 respondents cited and as such our participation came late.The proposal that we have made is that we want to participate on our own because we are defending the executive mayor and secondly in our view we want the court to make a pronouncement that this should not be dealt with urgently,” said Mpofu.  -Siphiwe Mchunu