THE breathtaking scenery in Cape Town, lifestyle and offering of top schools are said to be the reasons why Joburgers are flocking to the city to purchase property.According to Western Cape Premier Helen Zille, 56% of the bonds that Gauteng residents registered last year were for properties in the Western Cape. Pam Golding Properties area manager for the Atlantic Seaboard Basil Moraitis said: Buyers are attracted to the lifestyle. The Cape offers something for everyone, from mountain views and coastal vistas to a range of outdoor activities in beautiful surroundings. The Western Cape, and especially the Cape metro, have proven records of service delivery and this, coupled with the appealing lifestyle, are major drawcards for Gauteng buyers. Moraitis said Gauteng buyers who move to the Cape often look for secure estates. Agents say many of the Gauteng sales are to buyers wanting a second residence, with the intention to settle in the Cape in the long term. Families wanting the benefits of living in a province that enjoys efficient service delivery, and offers excellent schooling and tertiary education options, also move to the Cape, Moraitis said.The president of the Cape Chamber, Janine Myburgh, said: We think the attractive features that Cape Town offers and the fact that the Western Cape province is well run and there is little evidence of the rampant corruption one sees in other parts of the country is great for home sales. Education opportunities are good with some outstanding schools and four universities operating here. The Cape is also planning for the future and promoting industries where growth is most likely. Examples are the IT industry we now have more than 200 IT companies renewable energy and a film industry which attracts Hollywood A-list stars to the city. We have a business-friendly climate with the province in particular going out of its way to attract and accommodate investments and new industries. According to the Pam Golding Properties Residential Review, there has been a notable rise in moves to the Cape from July 2011 to date and it continues to increase. As of January last year, the Western Cape was the destination of choice for 33% of people moving.The FNB Estate Agent Survey showed that for the two summer quarters of 2016-17, the city of Cape Town had the lowest percentage of sellers in order to relocate to other parts of the country.Joburg had the second highest percentage of sellers moving to go elsewhere, at 10%. The Western Cape has also been a major destination area for repeat home buyers for several years. Pam Golding Properties agents have reported substantial interest from Gauteng buyers.news@thenewage.co.za-Keitumetsi Motlhale