A JOHANNESBURG CBD NGO that has been in continuous dispute with the surrounding community will soon find itself without a building to operate from.Usindiso Shelter in Marshalltown, Johannesburg, is meant to be a safe haven for abused women and children but has been reported numerous times to the city of Johannesburg by residents from neighbouring buildings for allegedly being used as a money-making scheme.Its owner, pastor Jean Bradley, has been accused of running the building without any lease agreement for six years and making a fortune without anyone stopping her from doing so.The allegations were made by Lefa Mokoena, a community leader. She has turned this building into a money-making scheme. The city of Johannesburg officials are not bothered by such and they keep on avoiding us as if nothing wrong is happening, he said.Mokoena said that some of the remaining women have turned to prostitution because there is no support of food, or anything that might assist their lives going forward.Most of the women who stay there say that they left their previous lives in a bid to look for a better life. Tlalane Buthelezi, 41, who was previously abused by her boyfriend, said that she had been living at the shelter for a year and conditions were never easy. I was brought to Usindiso by the police and I found it to be better than where I was even though there are challenges staying here. It s very challenging especially when you are staying with a child who has to be in school. Since there is no food here, I survive by pawning my belongings to get money to buy food and pay my daughter s school fees, she said.Buthelezi said that since she came to Usindiso she never had a skills programme and she did not have a relationship with Bradley as all she got from her was abuse.However, Bradley has defended herself against allegations that she was misusing the building given to her by the city of Joburg.This comes after claims by community members that she had been running a rental business with churches, students and construction businesses are renting the building.Most women who live in the shelter have accused Bradley of abuse and not providing them with food and skills programmes.Bradley said that Usindiso s work and progress had been interrupted tremendously over the last few months due to the interference of external influences. Most of the women there did not come for help but for a free place to stay and to do whatever they want. There are rules that they have agreed to but have refused to do even basic cleaning and keeping the place and bathrooms where they stay clean, she said.Bradley said that the length of stay at the shelter is six months and all of these women had been staying there for much longer than that. They have received lawyers letters a few times with lists of alternative shelters attached but have refused to even look at following this up. This was after they received the standard letter from Usindiso to leave as their time of stay was up. We did our best to find alternative accommodation for them but they refused, she said.City of Joburg media liaison officer Ayanda Radebe said that the city of Johannesburg confirmed that erf 1120 Marshalltown was the property of the city.Radebe said that the lease agreement between the city through the Johannesburg Property Company (JPC) and Usindiso Ministries had expired. The JPC has had numerous meetings with the community members regarding the complaints which have been recorded and addressed. JPC portfolio management will be advertising the property on public tender after the council approval has been obtained, she said. With regard to the activities at the NGO, it should be noted that Usindiso Ministries is not registered on the city s social development NGO register. Women and children shelters are assisted by the provincial department of social development. DIKELEDI RAMABOPAnews@thenewage.co.za