ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe yesterday poured cold water over comments attributed to him at the weekend for apparently endorsing Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa for the ANC presidency. Addressing United African Apostolic Church members on Sunday in Limpopo, Mantashe generated controversy when he said a torrent of “crisis” would sweep through the ANC if President Jacob Zuma did not “hand over” the leadership baton to Ramaphosa at the party’s December elective conference. This was also reported on his Twitter feed. This triggered a prompt response from ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Sihle Zikalala and presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma at an ANC cadres’ forum in KwaZulu-Natal. Zikalala and Dlamini-Zuma criticised the comments attributed to Mantashe. Mantashe said he was not pointing to the tradition of an ANC deputy president rising to president at the conference. “I never used the word tradition,” Mantashe told The New Age. He said that if the ANC in KZN took offence over his comments, then the structure should take the matter up with him. “The ANC in KZN can talk to me directly.” However, ANC Youth League (ANCYL) president Collen Maine said Mantashe’s comments stoked the ire of the ANCYL. He said that there was no such thing as a “handover”, but an “open leadership contestation” in the ANC. “There’s nothing called a handover in the ANC, there are elections. Comrades must not make insinuations that there will be chaos if their preferred candidate does not win. People should not threaten members of the ANC.” Maine said that the ANCYL could argue that a win for Ramaphosa in December could impact negatively on the ANC. “We can also say that there will be chaos if Cyril takes over, but we don’t want to go there.” There was nothing written in the ANC’s constitution for a deputy president to succeed the president, Maine said. “There are other deputies who have not been elected as president. When Zuma contested, nobody said comrades, Zuma is a deputy, he should take over. He contested.” Maine said Dlamini Zuma’s presidential ambitions would bear fruit at the party’s elective conference. “There will be a contest and the one who mobilises the most support and the one who convinces ANC branches will be president. People must not cast aspersions on other candidates.” Zikalala at the weekend said he disagreed with Mantashe’s view. “Those people who are predicting chaos are trying to instigate chaos, and we as members of the ANC will need to be vigilant and not be provoked by people who will sound like alarmists serving agent provocateurs,” Zikalala said. Dlamini Zuma echoed Zikalala’s sentiment. “As disciplined ANC members, ANC elections are a democratic process that is done by the branches of the ANC, anyone who predicts chaos in the ANC when the branches are exercising their democratic right is not a true cadre of the ANC.” BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za