A TOTAL of 39 children out of 49 who were rescued at a farm in Allandridge in Wesselsbron in Free State arrived safely in Mahikeng on Wednesday, social development MEC Hoffman Galeng said.Galeng said the children would be kept at Boikagong Child and Youth Care Centre.Close to 64 children from the age of 11 to 16, were rescued by the labour department at a farm after being employed as workers.Galeng said: We have welcomed minors from Wesselsbron in Free State after the Free State High Court ruled that we need to ensure that those children are back home by Tuesday. They were taken to a place of safety and we will wait for a decision regarding another 11 left behind. We have assembled a great team that ensured that we achieve this. The department urges all traditional leaders to ensure that they are vigilant. They must not let people come to their areas and promise community members jobs without any verification. Poverty, inequality and unemployment are the main causes of socio-economic problem in Ratlou, he said.The MEC also urged other stakeholders to come up with strategic plans to empower the community of Ratlou.The labour department spokesperson, Teboho Thejane, said 254 seasonal workers were also rescued after being exposed to inhumane conditions. We will continue to protect vulnerable workers. A total of children were also rescued from a non-compliant employer also operating as an illegal labour broker in the Wesselsbron area. Some of those children are from poverty-stricken areas in Ratlou local municipality, he said.Thejane said his department had been hard at work to crackdown what then seemed like a syndicate of mischievous employers paying their workers next to nothing, if at all they got paid, for working their fields.He said since the clampdown, inspectors of the department had been very alert and leaving no stone unturned in making sure that those criminals were brought to book. We are determined to make a clean sweep of the whole Lejweleputswa district. We stopped a truck ferrying 31 seasonal workers from one of the Wesselsbron farms back to the North West province. The driver of the truck was ordered to head to a local police station together with his passengers. Upon impeccable and thorough investigation by labour inspectors and the police, it was discovered that these passengers were seasonal workers and were being transported back home, Thejane said.Tshepiso Mongale, 16, once worked as a labourer at Wesselsbron back in March this year. Mongale who stays with his father and other four siblings said: I went to the area back inMarch. I wanted to use the money to buy myself a school uniform. No one is working and it is hard to survive. My father is doing odd jobs and he has no basic salary. I was paid R300 after working for two weeks. I want to continue with my studies, but it is hard with the poverty that we living in. I am doing Grade 7 at Mmadisebo Primary School in Madibogo village, the boy said.School principal Evah Bolokang said: Most of our pupils live in appalling conditions. The area is poverty-stricken and that forces them to quit school. Mongale is an intelligent boy. However, the support system he receives is not enough. Anyone who can assist must come forward because we do not want to see his future vanish in thin air. Head of the department of labour in the Free State Nomfundo Douw-Jack said she was shaken and taken aback by the outrageous and despicable conduct displayed by an employer, also operating as an illegal labour broker on farms around Wesselsbron and Allanridge area. Labour inspectors together with officials from other state agencies such as the Hawks, the South African Social Security Agency and the department of environmental affairs were hard at work in a quest to make a clean sweep of these horrendous acts and save children from exploitation and inhumane treatment mooted to them by this individual. To date, 64 children have been removed from farms in the district. Save for those found in farms such as Driehoek and Weenen 2 others were rescued from the farm calledKwaggavlakte. It is clear that the employers are clearly hell bent to circumvent the provisions of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act which prohibits employment of children and payment of minimum wages as prescribed by the Sectoral Determination 13: Farm Worker Sector, Douw-Jack said.Hawks national spokesperson, Brig Hangwani Molaudzi said the case was under investigations. Newsnote-OBAKENG MAJE