PROTEAS fast bowler Vernon Philander insisted there was no bad blood between himself and Faf du Plessis despite coming under severe criticism from the skipper and former captain Graeme Smith during the Test series in England last month. Philander struggled with an ankle injury and a viral ailment in the first and third Tests in England before he sat out for the fourth with a back concern. Du Plessis, who was frustrated, urged Philander to focus on his fitness and weight following the 3-1 series defeat. “Vern needs to work on his fitness. It’s happened too often he doesn’t play a full series and I have spoken to him about that and he has accepted the challenge that he needs to improve,” Du Plessis said back then. However, Philander, who will miss the Proteas’ first Test against Bangladesh tomorrow in Potchefstroom, said he took the criticism as constructive. “I think Smith is entitled to his opinion. At the end of the day myself and Faf, we have a clear line of communication,” Philander said yesterday during the KFC mini cricket launch in Johannesburg. “For me, I have recovered from that injury and I have been working hard in Cape Town doing my rehab and that’s a good place for me something which I haven’t had before. “Everything is coming up nicely and I’m getting my bowling fitness up there and
ready to go in a couple of weeks time.” The 32 year old said he did have a chat with Du Plessis afterward and that they both made their views clear on the way forward. “It is an international sport and you always going to get criticism. It was constructive criticism and I moved forward,” Philander said. “Myself and Faf had a chat afterward. We talk about those things and as long as we are open to each other then it’s fine. He made his views clear and I made mine clear to him. Like I said as long as we can understand each other we will get on well together.” With the Proteas to face Bangladesh, India and Australia in the summer, they will need a fit Philander. Philander is likely to take part in the second Test against Bangladesh in Bloemfontein next month. “The rehab has been going very well. I’m feeling a lot stronger and I think it all about getting the bowling fitness up there,” Philander said. nevillek@thenewage.co.za -Neville Khoza