More than 2,6-million beneficiaries had already accessed their SASSA grants on Saturday through ATMs and Merchants, the Department of Social Development said in a statement. Government is pleased to announce that social grants payments are underway across the country for beneficiaries who receive their grants through ATMs and Merchants. At 10 am, 2, 6 million beneficiaries had already accessed their grants, the statement read. The Minister of Social Development, Bathabile Dlamini, MECs, local government leaders and various SASSA officials were on the ground countrywide responding to queries and monitoring the payments, the statement said. Sassa and the Department ordered by the Constitutional Court to sign a contract with Cash Paymaster Services after a suitable alternative for the distribution of grants could not be found. Beneficiaries were encouraged to contact SASSA call centre for any enquires on 0800 60 10 11. So far, over 1500 queries have already been handled. Government wishes to remind beneficiaries who receive their grants at pay points that they will receive their grants as normal from Monday, 03 April 2017. Additionally we urge beneficiaries to use the official SASSA branded card to access their social grants. Social Grants increments effective from 01 April 2017 Government also notes that social grants increases are effective as of today. The old age grant will increase by R90 to R1600 for pensioners over the age of 60, and R1620 for those over 75. The disability and care dependency grants also increase by R90 to R1600 a month. Foster care grants increase by R30 to R920 a month. The child support grant increases by R20 to R380 a month. Government remains committed to improving the living conditions of poor, vulnerable and underprivileged South Africans. The social assistance programme remains an important safety net for millions of South Africans said Minister of Social Development, Bathabile Dlamini. Grants applications approvals have improved from 90 days to 1 day in certain offices. Please follow @OfficialSASSA and @GovernmentZA on Twitter for updates. Beneficiaries are also encouraged to share their stories or photos using the hashtag #SASSACARES.