Newly-appointed Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba on Saturday appealed for unity and for critics and factions to works together in the interests of all South Africans. Gigaba was appointed Finance Minister in a Cabinet reshuffle on Friday which has been widely-criticised from within the ruling party. The fallout from the reshuffle included criticism from the Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, who described the intelligence report on Pravin Gordhan was axed as frivolous, the ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe among others. There have also been calls to the ANC caucus to join the opposition in a vote of no confidence. Let us focus our energies on finding common ground that will increase investment, create new jobs, increase productivity and raise incomes, Gigaba said on Saturday. The new FM said he was humbled to appointed to the position and said he would not be distracted by the what he described as a highly politicised, polarised and contentious moment in the history of our young democracy . National Treasury was a key enabling institution for progressive change, he said. It did not help that there had been a narrative or perception around Treasury, that it belongs primarily and exclusively to orthodox economists, big business, powerful interests and international investors Gigaba said that Treasury belongs to the people and does not exist for the exclusive and benefit of people with power and vested interests . He said he was committed to an investment grade credit rating but said that while he accepts the scrutiny of investment agencies he hoped that this scrutiny will not preclude our ability creatively and still within our means to pursue progressive policies to achieve our development objectives. We must have the courage and the space to develop and implement policies of our choice appropriate for our particular challenges and aspirations. He acknowledged that there was a recognition that the pace of transformation was too slow. We can no longer pretend that growing the economy, as it is currently constituted, will improve the lives of all South Africans. We need to change our approach. The National Development Plan does not speak only to growth, but to inclusive growth, he said and during the news weeks he would be engaging with key stakeholders: business, big and small, the establishment and black industrialists emerging and aspiring; managers and professionals; organised labour; civil society; in the tripartite alliance and the opposition. During his speech, Gigaba also outlined his key which included using state s spending to grow black enterprises.