ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe has questioned former public protector Thuli Madonsela s motives for failing to release a provisional report linking Absa to an apartheid-era bail out.Briefing editors in Johannesburg yesterday, Mantashe said that this was in contrast to the manner in which Madonsela prioritised the release of the State of Capture report and did not understand why the apartheid debt probe was not treated with the same urgency. Thuli (Madonsela) explains the writing of this report. But the issue is why it was not published. That s the issue. In contrast, unnecessary perception and scandal was created in the way the state capture report was written and released in a rush. This matter must be debated in public, Mantashe said.Mantashe said that ANC wants to see the original version of the Absa report.Themba Godi, the chair of Parliament s standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) said that whoever inappropriately used public money should be called to account and the money recovered. There was rot. We do need to look at this because apartheid people make the loudest noise against corruption. Since October, he said, Scopa had been hounding those who had been involved in the fruitless and wasteful spending of public money. The focus has been on state corruption post-1994. Corruption that involves private companies has been ignored, Godi said.Mantashe s deputy, Jessie Duarte, called for the mandate of the Reserve Bank to be revisited while Cosatu said it should be nationalised.Sizwe Pamla, national spokesperson, said: There is need for a commission of inquiry to investigate this and other illegal transactions that may have occurred prior to the 1994 elections. He said the matter raised the question of the independence of the Reserve Bank. We need to nationalise the Reserve Bank because it seems like it is hiding the rot. IFP MP and spokesperson on finance and public accounts Mkhuleko Hlengwa said an investigation must be allowed to follow its full course and that, once concluded, the recommendations of the public protector be implemented. While it is noted that Absa is a target of political attack from certain quarters of the political elite, and that the timing of this leaked report is opportune in respect of political payback , it must also be noted that during the transition from apartheid to democracy, state coffers were looted. A full audit of payments made by the Treasury during that time is necessary and any such transactions found to have been of the nature of undue benefit must be repatriated to the state. Dennis Cruywagen and Sello Rabothatanews@thenewage.co.za