President Jacob Zuma yesterday drew lessons in closing ranks from the annals of ANC history amid deepening divisions in the 105-year-old liberation movement.Addressing thousands of undaunted ANC party faithful who braved the wet and chilly weather at the party s anniversary celebration at Orlando stadium in Soweto, Zuma urged the ANC rank and file to learn from the party s national consultative conferences which came at a time when the ANC was confronted by serious challenges pressed upon it by the apartheid regime.He said that the overarching theme for the ANC s 1969 consultative conference in Morogoro, Tanzania and the subsequent 1985 Kabwe conference in Zambia was unity The period prior to the 1969 Morogoro conference was a period of unhappiness for our movement. The leadership headed by president Oliver Tambo discussed issues frankly and in a comradely manner. The Kabwe conference also emphasised the importance of utmost unity in order to defeat the regime and liberate the people, Zuma said.Zuma s comments come against the background of a group of ANC stalwarts and veterans who signed the For the Sake of our Future document gearing up for a meeting with the ANC s policy unit this week on their call for a national consultative conference before the ANC s policy conference later this year.The veterans argued that the conference would help the ANC tackle divisions and factionalism which have dogged the party s efforts in fostering unity within the movement.Zuma, making reference to internal challenges faced by the ANC last year, acknowledged that the party was engulfed in a state of crisis. Today our movement faces serious challenges to its unity. Divisive tendencies such as factionalism, gatekeeping and manipulation of internal processes exist at all levels of the ANC. The leagues of the ANC, the alliance and the mass democratic movement. These tendencies inhibit our ability to give decisive leadership to society. Zuma, alluding to the ANC s national executive committee s visit to the party s branch structures following the ANC s bruising local government election defeat, said that the party through its listening tours would heed its members calls to steer clear of corruption. The people have told us that we are too busy fighting each other and we do not pay sufficient attention to their needs. Our own research and interactions with members of the ANC demonstrate clearly that the people abhor the apparent preoccupation with personal gain, Zuma said.Switching to the economic front, Zuma said: Addressing poverty, inequality and unemployment is our key task. We shall therefore work tirelessly to overcome these challenges. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za