A YOUNG green energy entrepreneur Thabang Mashapa has invented a SmartSan toilet system that could solve sanitation problems in rural schools and informal settlements. The innovation has already been embraced in neighbouring countries which include Lesotho, Mozambique and Namibia.However, Mashapa is still battling to win over local authorities to support his initiative. The SmartSan system comes with full water-borne sewer reticulation infrastructure, converting waste into energy. Mashapa s company, Back 2 Front Technologies, manufactures the system, which is CSIR-certified.The initiative has been hailed as totally green , compact, is the first of its kind developed and manufactured in South Africa. Looking at the problems that we have in the country I had to come up with solutions.The reason I came up with the SmartSan toilet is that I wanted to overcome the struggle in which pit toilets are susceptible to causing accidents in which kids fall inside the cisterns and die. Also, looking at the hygiene part of it, I wanted black people to live a hygienic and dignified life. Lets face it, the bucket system is inhumane and degrading, Mashapa said.Mashaba said users of this toilet system have access to safety, with a full water-borne facility that include sanitation inside and outside their homes. The toilet requires minimum basic maintenance which can be performed by trained community members, an initiative that also could result in job creation. He has made presentations to municipalities in all nine provinces to promote the idea with all unending empty promises . I wish we could be offered a platform to do this for our communities. The project will also create jobs. I believe all citizens deserve proper sanitation. The smart toilet has a septic tank with a built-in battery and solar panel. It works like a normal toilet. In the process of flushing, a chemical separating water and waste is discharged. The water gets purified and can be used again, he said. The solar panel is used to charge the battery and can also be used to provide lighting in the toilet, useful especially in rural areas where there is no electricity. The Soweto-born entrepreneur said he realised that there was a great need for this type of innovation during his travels around the country. The initiative converts waste material into gas that can be used for cooking, he said.Mashapa founded his company, Back 2 Front, in 2007, which is focused in green energy technology including biotechnology, solar geysers and bio-gas. He studied electronic engineering at Wits University after which he went to Berlin, Germany, to further his study in green energy technology and project management.Upon his return from Berlin, he started working on the SmartSan project. He said the incident at Mohladumela Primary School in 2014 in Limpopo in which six-year-old Grade R pupil Michael Komape died after falling into a pit-toilet, prompted him to consider embarking on the project. Again, in 2015, four-year-old Samuel Matshusa of Mogwazeni village drowned in a pit-toilet while he was playing with his friends. In the Eastern Cape, a study has shown that 52% of schools fell short in water and sanitation.dikeledir@thenewage.co.za-Dikeledi Ramabopa