Former street kid Stanley Mkhize has one of the most lurid life stories that can easily convince the worst pessimist that anything is possible.Having lived on the streets for a lengthy period, Mkhize worked his way up to become a successful knowledge worker and human resource development practitioner.The Department of Home Affairs head of training and development responsible for raising the next generation of dedicated, patriotic, security-conscious, caring and professional officials had an unsettled childhood.His parents divorced when he was six and his mother would not let him see his father.His mother remarried a few times enough for young Mkhize to desert her and his abusive step-fathers. I got tired of having different fathers who were abusive, he said.With nowhere to go, he moved from one relative s house to another. Sadly, the young man never found the home he was looking for.In the process, he worked as a farm worker, gardener and a cleaner during his early days at Wits University where he attained his first qualification.He says one of the most dreadful periods of his life was when he lived in the Free State with an alcoholic uncle who was an amateur boxer. He really abused me and would arrive at 2am drunk and ask me to do sparring with him, Mkhize said. One time I softly punched him and he thoroughly beat me up. I woke up with a swollen eye. His uncle s kids took a leaf from their dad s book and made young Mkhize a punching bag . One day when the parents were away, I locked the house and beat the kids hard. I then left that house and never returned, Mkhize said.He said all of that taught him to fight for himself from an early age.And then there was a distant relative a Free State priest who made sure Mkhize wouldn t reunite with is father. I believe my father loved me and wanted to see me but they would hide the letters he wrote looking for me, he said.A few more stints with relatives frustrated him further. In the end, Mkhize began living under a bridge in Braamfontein where he kept his matric certificate in a plastic bag.He recalls how he enrolled late for Grade 1 or Sub A then after a teacher saw him working in a coalfield and told him to save up money for school.As much as he was convinced to take that step, the biggest challenge was having to start from the lowest grade. I had no proof that I d ever been to school before, so I had to start from Sub A with the little kids. I had a pair of khaki shorts and one shirt but no shoes, Mkhize said.He laughingly shares how he had walked into a shop barefooted where he took a pair of shoes from the shelf, put them on and walked out.Mkhize, who had turned into a bully because of his chaotic upbringing, had at one point been given a last warning for being violent with his younger classmates.When the examination approached, he remembers calling his mother desperate for R71 to register for his final exams the following day. I called my mother needing R71 and thought she would be happy her child had gone that far with school but she was uninterested, Mkhize said. She said: I m throwing a party for my friends so I have no money . A saddened Mkhize then said something to his mother that he says no child should say to a parent. I told her one day she would be old and she would have no one to look to. She told her friends and they laughed about it so I dropped the phone. Luckily someone he had developed an understanding with gave him the money.Recapping his life, the father of three said his biggest tool for emancipation was education.He remembers penning down his life vision with six key points: to get educated, start a family, become a good writer, be wealthy and serve his country and God. I ve a family, I m slightly educated, maybe I will one day be rich, and I m serving my country. I m also writing a book and I do serve God.I ve also taken kids, who had no means, to school. I took them into my house and paid for their school, he said.It also took faith to get admitted at Wits University. I met someone going to Wits to drop off their application and I asked to join him. The moment I saw Wits, I just fell in love with the place, so I asked an administrator there what she needed for me to also apply. Upon hearing that his results were needed and an application form had to be completed, he pulled his matric certificate out of his dirty plastic bag and applied.He did not have the requisite R500 admission fee and had to ask for it from one of his former headmasters, who was generous enough to give him the money.Once he was given a berth to study towards a BA in education, Mkhize, whose dream had been to study journalism, moved to a university residence and no longer had to live on the streets.But that was not the end of poverty for the young student, who only had a pair of baggy trousers that were given to him by a former teacher.A group of high school teachers, who had made a commitment to sent him R50 every month, reneged on their promise. I don t remember having a bar of proper bathing soap, Mkhize said. There were times when I would have to bath with powder laundry soap. During holidays, when the university s residences were closed, an exception was made for Mkhize as he had nowhere else to go.He singled out the late former Sowetan editor, Aggrey Klaaste, as one man who became a father figure to him.His most memorable Christmas was the day Klaaste s secretary, Linda Willies, and her family came with a cake to celebrate with him. I enjoyed and felt like I had family, he said.When it was graduation time, Nick Binedell, the founding director of the Gordon Institute of Business Science, was the only person in attendance to celebrate with Mkhize. He had a bouquet of flowers and sweets. I cried when I saw all this. He hugged me and took a picture with me. He s a good leader with a heart for people. Mkhize s first job was as a teacher at Lamula Jubilee Senior Secondary School in Soweto but he soon quit and claims there was a plot to kick him out of school.He was unemployed for six months before his next posting at Westbury Secondary School. There was racism there but I didn t care, he said. The kids I taught still adored me; I m still their teacher today. In 1994, his dream of raising a family became a reality when his first daughter was born. My wife and my kids are the closest relatives I have, the proud husband and dad said.Interestingly, he said he still didn t understand how his wife said yes when he had asked her to marry him, considering that he didn t have the nicest clothes at the time. It was unthinkable to some that she was my girlfriend, he said.At some point, the meticulous Mkhize had to work three jobs to ensure that there was enough money to further his studies and he went on to rake in more educational certificates. I worked three jobs, at some point, but I still passed. I was a student helper in the bursary section, I worked at the matric rewrite centre, as well as the Wits Business School. After a frustrating spell At the business school, where he worked under an alleged racist female boss, he was given the responsibility to run the Management Advancement Programme (MAP). I turned it into a success story. It was the best job I had ever had I built it. It was dying when they gave it to me and I felt they wanted me to fail so they could fire me. But I fixed everything and did well, Mkhize said.He took the MAP to Swaziland, Namibia, Tanzania and Botswana.In 2009, he invited the current chairperson of the African Union Commission, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, as a guest speaker at a MAP event.This was shortly before she began her tenure as minister of Home Affairs. She asked me to help the department with training of managers at the department and I agreed to do it for her, he said. She later felt I could do a good job as a Home Affairs employee, so they called me in for an interview. He joined the department months later and stayed on to drive the department s cadet programme.His passion is to groom an incorruptible Home Affairs official. Mkhize s ingenuity has not gone unnoticed after he was given an award in December in recognition of outstanding excellence and dedication to learning and development. We endeavour to create a person who is an all-rounder and knows the full functions of Home Affairs, he said. We believe the cadet programme is the future of Home Affairs. Hundreds of South Africans have completed the national certificate, which provides a framework to develop competencies related to communication, interpersonal relationships and client services with a specific focus on in-depth application of expertise and knowledge of legislation.Other than that, Mkhize is keen on touching young people s lives, especially those from underprivileged backgrounds, and believes it is always possible to turn around a hopeless situation.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za