Within minutes of typing kidneys for sale into your search engine, I was talking to a doctor who reassured me that if I didn t drink or smoke, I could sell my kidney for R1.2m. And it would seem from the testimonies on some of these websites that desperate South Africans are joining the throngs of people internationally to participate in this illegal practice.The shortage of willing donors for a large number of people seeking organs, such as kidneys, has fuelled the worldwide illicit online organ trade.The government and National Kidney Foundation of South Africa (NKFSA) confirmed that South Africans were offering to sell their kidneys online. NKFSA spokesperson Fanie du Toit said less than 350 transplants are performed in South Africa yearly. He said the selling of organs was often seen as a way out of difficult money situations. It becomes clear that it s reaching critical levels and seems to be getting worse every year. The figures for kidney transplants in the private sector is much better than figures for the public sector but in total, less than 10% of patients in need of a transplant will actually be lucky enough to get it, Du Toit said.He said the foundation was aware of social media appeals for people to come forward as donors. The Organ Donor Foundation (ODF) said there were 4 300 adults and children in South Africa awaiting life-saving organs with less than 600 transplants performed each year. Many adults and children die waiting for a transplant or in the case of kidneys (these patients are on dialysis) must wait an average of 5-8 years for a transplant if they do not have a living donor, ODF executive director Samantha Nicholls said. She said recipients for kidneys were the highest number on the waiting list but many others were awaiting other organs.These patients were most at risk of dying if the required organs were not found in time. This reporter went onto some of the websites and at www.sellkidney.com posed as a potential seller and was taken through the entire process. According to the terms and conditions provided, the patient must be above 18 years old and below 60 .The website offers about R3m for a kidney and insists the seller has to be a non-smoker and non-alcoholic. Half of the payment is made before the surgery while the balance is paid off afterwards. It claims the 13-hour nephrectomy surgery is done at a safe hospital in India. It s going to be done here in India, it s a 13-hour procedure and after surgery you ve got to be on bed rest for 21 days, wrote one Joseph Thachil in one of his several emails to this reporter.He said, as the agents, they would pay for the costs of the procedure, flights and any other costs related to the surgery. On another website, a potential South African seller posted: Hi. I m a healthy white South African in desperate need of financial aid. Is there any way I can do this from South Africa? Sell my kidney that is . Another wrote: I am in South Africa and I would like to sell my kidney .The World Health Organisation stated an organ is sold every hour despite the trade being illegal worldwide. In fact, Unisa Prof Magda Slabbert, who has done extensive research and published numerous articles on organ transplants in South Africa over the past 17 years, said the only country that allows the selling of organs is Iran.-Mthokozisi Dube