Cervical cancer is among the top female diseases in South Africa despite being treatable when detected early.Right to Care s Cervical Cancer Programme manager Dr Bridgette Goeieman said hundreds of women fought cervical cancer with some succumbing to it. Cervical cancer is the most prevalent cancer for women in South Africa and too many women are being diagnosed too late, Goeieman said.According to the Cancer Association of South Africa (Cansa), 20% of cervical cancer patients are more than 65 years of age. One in 43 women in South Africa gets cervical cancer, Cansa said.Figures by Goeieman indicate that about 7735 new cervical cancer cases are recorded annually and 4248 deaths occur every year.Given the rising threat posed by the condition to women, the Health and Basic Education departments launched a human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination campaign in 2014 to vaccinate young girls in public schools against cervical cancer. HPV is administered to young girls (seven to nine years old) before they are sexually active. The vaccine prevents cervical cancer, Department of Health communications officer Popo Maja said.The government drive has been intense with 830 schools visited last year alone with most Grade 4 pupils at these schools receiving their first dose of the HPV vaccination.Cervical cancer is a malignant neoplasm arising from cells originating in the cervix. One of the most common symptoms of cervical cancer is abnormal vaginal bleeding but in some cases there may be no obvious symptoms until the cancer has progressed to an advanced stage.Risk factors for cervical cancers include becoming sexually active at an early age, having multiple partners, smoking, using oral contraception from a young age, an unhealthy diet that is low in fruit and vegetables, sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV. The primary underlying cause of cervical cancer is HPV, which is the most common STI, and of which there are more than 100 types. Type 16 and type 18 cause 70% of cervical cancers, Goeieman said.Although the figures show that cancer is the most common killer for women in South Africa, it is preventable. Despite these alarming statistics, cervical cancer is the most preventable cancer. It can be effectively treated if detected early, Goeieman said. But our public healthcare system does not have the capacity to roll out screening and treatment programmes at the scale that is required. Lucinsa Carter, a cervical cancer survivor, says that it is important to take care of oneself and go for check-ups regularly. It s been an amazing journey with highs and lows weaved together, she said. I realised how important it is to look after your health and to go for necessary health checks regularly. Carter said a healthy lifestyle was of utmost importance in life and that she lived every day with hope and to encourage other survivors to do the same.More than half of women diagnosed with cervical cancer are between the ages of 35 and 55, while women aged 15 years and older are at high risk.Charlote Hlangwanenews@thenewage.co.za