THE ANC was on a knife edge last night as voting commenced for the party’s top six officials. In a straight fight for the position of president, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa will know their fate today. Both camps will also get a shot at the deputy presidency position, with David Mabuza, who is on the Dlamini Zuma ticket and Lindiwe Sisulu, who is Ramaphosa’s running mate, fighting it out. There were two other candidates, Naledi Pandor, whose withdrawal was announced yesterday and Zweli Mkhize, who announced his withdrawal during nominations last night. A tense Mkhize said his decision was taken in the interest of unity. The results are expected to be released today. The nominations for other positions were Gwede Mantashe and Nathi Mthethwa for national chairperson, Senzo Mchunu and Ace Magashule for secretary-general, Jessie Duarte and Zingiswa Losi for deputy secretarygeneral, and Paul Mashatile and Maite Nkoane-Mashabane for treasurer. Yesterday, allegations of vote buying dominated the 54th ANC national conference, with intense lobbying continuing unabated. The much-anticipated electoral process got off to a rowdy start when the party’s electoral commission came under fire from some delegates over the nomination and voting processes. It took the intervention of senior party representatives, including secretarygeneral Gwede Mantashe, Tony Yengeni and Naledi Pandor, to bring a semblance of order to the proceedings. The bitter battle between Ramaphosa and Dlamini Zuma continued yesterday, with elements from both campaigns involved in last-ditch attempts to shore up support. Yesterday, the adoption of credentials was done without any controversy despite allegations of inflated delegations. A total of 4 476 votes will be cast. A minimum of 2 389 votes will be enough for either Dlamini Zuma or Ramaphosa to succeed Jacob Zuma as party president. The neck-and-neck battle between the candidates has made this the most contested election ever. Proposals for the ANC to include two deputy presidents in its organisational design and for the runner-up of the newly elected president to automatically become deputy president have also been shot down and suggested that slate politics is very much alive. A proposal for two deputy secretarygenerals was also deferred to the party’s constitutional committee for further consideration. Yesterday, the Ramaphosa camp was hit by allegations of corporate giant Bid vest “attempting to buy” delegates for his presidential cause. According to a Sunday newspaper report, delegates who supported Ramaphosa had been given accommodation in luxury hotels at Montecasino, allegedly by Bidvest, a company with which Ramaphosa has had business links. The accusations riled some of those opposed to Ramaphosa. ANC Youth League president Collen Maine warned delegates not to allow themselves to be bought by lobbyists. “We are aware that Bidvest has booked accommodation for a number of delegates at Montecasino in Fourways. We plead with you delegates not to be bought because it is temporary. After using you, they will dump you,” Maine said. Also lashing out against Bidvest’s “desire to control the ANC” were North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo and KZN ANC chairperson Sihle Zikalala. They hoped the ANCwould “investigate and act harshly against Bidvest”. Yesterday, several videos were leaked showing Zikalala, Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza, Mahumapelo and Free State Premier Ace Magashule addressing crowds in support of Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. The videos went viral and showed the group lobbying behind the main conference hall at Nasrec as the Dlamini Zuma camp intensified its campaign. Ramaphosa received a boost from outgoing ANC national chairperson Baleka Mbete. At the weekend, she announced she was dropping her own presidential aspirations and joining his slate. Another would-be presidential candidate, Lindiwe Sisulu, joined his campaign as its candidate for the deputy president position. She replaced Pandor on the Ramaphosa list. On the other hand, Dlamini Zuma’s campaign got a boost at the weekend when Mabuza announced that he had joined her. As last night’s plenary started and the media was asked to leave, a source close to The New Age informed us that former ANC treasurer-general Matthews Phosa had allegedly joined the Dlamini Zuma camp. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN AND NTOMBI NKOSI