OVER the past couple of months, if not years, we have witnessed some mainstream median channels vociferously trying to ridicule the radical economic transformation (RET) agenda and one of its proponents, member of Parliament Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. The vrou gevaar has been constructed and the swart gevaar is raising its head again. The “ridicule” started with a small reference to “the wife” of the president, who still has a house in the residence of the president. This fake news story was disputed and only an approach to the Press Ombud forced the publication to issue an insignificant “we are sorry but our faceless sources may have gotten it wrong”, many months later. The mischief continues to unravel itself in the mainstream media. One famous cartoonist firstly made the mistake of saying all the tried and tested leaders present a low high jump bar and one is referred to in first name reminiscent of yesteryear reference to our fathers being called only by first name in the gardens and factories they worked in. Secondly, one is referred to as the “sleepwalking ex-wife of gangster president”. This patriarchal line of thinking and narrative seeks to undermine Dr Dlamini Zuma’s independence, for after all there can be no African woman who can rise and exercise independent thought outside a man! Incidentally, the other presidential aspirants in that cartoon are referred to as “a bunch on no hopers”, even though they are long serving leaders of the ANC and society. One gender activist’s words comes to mind when in 2006 she wrote about vrou gevaar. “But patriarchy is a parasitic system that survives by adapting itself to the prevailing economic and political set-up.” True to this, the narrative adapts and shifts its narrative by titling Dr Dlamini Zuma as ex-wife and/or mini Zuma. Not former vice president of the Saso, not medical doctor, not former minister in the Mandela, Mbeki and Zuma cabinets. Alas not even former chairperson of the African Union Commission. Dr Dlamini Zuma, in the eyes of the mainstream media, is just an appendage to someone else. Somehow the achievements she recorded as minister of health which included a fight against big business in the pharmaceutical and tobacco industries are somewhat immaterial. Her contributions to global peace and governance which (among others) also birthed the
World Summit on Sustainable Development and the African Union are somewhat insignificant. The fact that some six years ago a visit to the Department of Home Affairs to acquire documentation meant half a day away from work is now a long distant memory. Ignoring facts doesn’t mean they don’t exist. While the continent’s leaders and citizens applaud Agenda 2063 and its implementation plan, recall that it was Dr Dlamini Zuma that led the charge in the fight against Ebola by mobilising the private sector and the public to raise $34m (R462m) and supporting more
than 800 African volunteers, our mainstream media sees South Africa’s contribution to
regional integration and development as a failed project. Fair enough, the mainstream media have the right to and have clearly picked their horse. Whatever the pick, it is prudent to consider the proposals on the table and not to concern oneself with peripheral issues such as who constitutes which team. For the record, team NDZ is running a people’s campaign which is led by the ANC Women’s League and supported by the ANC Youth League, Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association and structures of the ANC. Dr Dlamini Zuma is not linked to the characters the mainstream seeks to link her to via social media. So what is the radical economic transformation agenda about and why its need? “It’s not nice to have, we have no choice but we must radically transform our economy, because we are sitting on a ticking time bomb and there will be a time when people will revolt and when that happens nobody will escape. It is therefore important to address this challenge before it gets out of hand,” Dr Dlamini
Zuma said on one TV channel. In another publication, she expands by penning: “In the world’s most equal societies, the top 10% earn about six times as much as the bottom 10%. In South Africa, the top 10% earn 110 times more that the bottom 10%. This is why the ANC has made a concerted effort to focus on radical economic transformation.This will provide a fundamental change in the structure, systems, institutions and patterns of ownership, management and control of the economy in favour of all South Africans, especially the poor, the majority of whom are young, African and female. Such a path will secure a developmental state which places people at its centre without leaving anyone behind. Inclusivity is at the centre of our approach.” Alas the mainstream in an unattributed and screaming headlines understood this to be saying “Dlamini Zuma to transfer white minority wealth to black majority if elected”, on the back of the Black Monday saga. Huh?
They offered this as gospel truth without even a quote nor references. Then their associated broadcast media goes on a rampage on “these people have lost
their marbles”. Enter swart gevaar. Just like in the heyday of Nationalist Party rule, these mediums seek to drive fear into the hearts and minds of our compatriots, the boogy man (or woman) is out to get you. Never mind that in the quoted interview Dr Dlamini Zuma said: “Radical economic transformation is about expanding our economy in a way that more people participate in it but it is also about transforming the structure of our economy, the management, the system and the ownership.” Indeed, radical economic transformation is to the benefit of all for in the most skewed and unequal societies violence, crime and instability tend to be far higher. Win or lose the people’s interest must be paramount and it is okay to pick your candidate. But don’t fall into the traps of vrou gevaar and swart gevaar, challenge everyone on their agenda and not perceptions directed at creating a wedge in our movement and society. Experience teaches us that these wedges are far more difficult to mend and easier to create. In the words of Dr Dlamini Zuma “if they are patriots, they will accept the results and they will work with whoever wins, even if it’s not the one they would have chosen”. Vukani Lumumba Mthintso is the former advisor to former African Union Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma