HALFWAY through the PSL campaign relegation seems a real threat for defending champions Wits as they continue to struggle at the bottom of the log. Following another defeat to Platinum Stars on Saturday at home, it’s getting tough for the Clever Boys with 11 points from 14 matches which includes two victories and five draws. Coach Gavin Hunt admitted that their position is embarrassing and having seen his side struggled to find the back of the net, he refused to point any fingers but said everyone must take full responsibility. “It’s a disappointment being so far. The chances we miss is crazy, isn’t it? Platinum Stars didn’t have one chance tonight, not one. I’m talking from open play,” Hunt said after the 1-0 loss. “Last week, Polokwane City had one chance and scored. The week before, we had more chances. So, it’s been like that. It’s unbelievable, the chances we’re missing.” These are worrying times for the Clever Boys and they will need to turn it around if they are to avoid sinking deeper in the relegation zone. “When you’re top of the log you’re worried and when you’re bottom of the log you’re worried. “So, we’re worried but, I mean, we can’t play with fear. “We’ve got to take heed of the situation, there’s no doubt about it. A lot of us are embarrassed coming from where we were last season to where we are now.” What has been frustrating Hunt is his side has struggled to find the back of the net. They have only scored seven in 14 matches. Hunt admitted that has been their stumbling block with his strikers failing to hit the target. “People go on about this and that but, I mean, we’re creating opportunities. From the first game this season, where we lost 1-0 to Cape Town City, the score could’ve been anything. “You’ve got to score. I mean, the strikers haven’t scored, but you can’t blame the strikers, you’ve got to blame everybody, centrebacks, wingers, whatever. “The chances have fallen to a lot of the ‘senior’ players and they haven’t scored, but I think you’ve got to look at the squad. So, there’s been huge, chances but people haven’t scored goals. “To be fair, the fight in the team is good, we’re fighting. We’ve played three games now and the three teams have had two chances against us in three games.” Wits’ next match will be against Free State Stars on January 5 at Milpark Stadium.  -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za