This was a year of defining personalities. Among those big names in the news,  Jacob Zuma, Cyril Ramaphosa, Bathabile Dlamini, DD  Mabuza and the Gupta family, were a couple of also-rans. Cecilia Russell gives a personal look at these … Markus Jooste As the market mercilessly plunged at the news of accounting irregularities at Steinhof emerged, questions were asked about the man, Markus Jooste, who had been at the helm for nearly 20 years. Just who was the Stellenbosch boytjie who hastily resigned as the scandal came to light? Horse racing dominated Jooste’s celebrity lifestyle. This included a bizarre story, reported in Britain’s The Sun newspaper, that instead of buying a ticket Jooste bought a hill to watch his horse, Douglas Macarthur, run in the Epsom Derby. This was no comfort for government pensioners whose funds reportedly lost an estimated R16.5-billion in investments.  Qedani Mahlangu Almost as infamous for being absent as for her role in the Life Esidimeni tragedy Qedani Mahlangu will finally testify before arbitration hearings into the deaths of psychiatric patients. Mahlangu was the MEC when 143 mental patients died after the Gauteng Department of Health transferred mental health patients from Life Esidimeni to unregistered NGOs in a what was deemed to be a cost-saving exercise. The hearings have been characterised by searing emotional testimony as family members recall their relatives’ hungry, squalid, lonely last days. Ahmed Timol The late Ahmed Timol last days were recalled during an inquest in which Judge Billy Mothle ruled that anti-apartheid activist had been murdered and had not taken his own life in 1971.   For his family and fellow activists the satisfaction of having an earlier 1972 inquest, which had found that Timol had jumped out of the 10th floor of the John Vorster Square building, overturned was a victory.   For those too young to have remembered apartheid’s dark days it was a reminder of the brutality of a regime which had recorded more than 70 deaths since Looksmart Ngudle died in detention in 1963. Makhosi Khoza Former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza started her new party strategically at the site of Nelson Mandela’s arrest at Liliesleaf and just days before the ANC’s elective conference. Khoza, an outspoken critic of President Jacob Zuma, resigned from the party after facing charges of contravening 11 party rules including bringing the ANC into disrepute, failing to comply with party policy and behaving in a manner which provokes divisions or impacts negatively on the unity of the ANC. A serial Facebook poster Khoza said she would vote with her conscience with the opposition instead of with the caucus in a no-confidence debate. She angered the ANC for what they considered the rip off of their colours and logo for her new party – African Democratic Change. Brian Molefe The saga of Brian Molefe’s R30-million pension played out in Parliament, in the courts, and in the media, this year as the former Eskom CEO was expected to explain his retirement/resignation … taking up a seat in Parliament … return and second exit from the state-owned enterprise. The court is yet to rule, the Eskom hearings in Parliament are yet to be finalised and the commission of inquiry into State Capture is yet to be set up. This saga is sure to be part of the media landscape for another year. Helen Zille No matter how much Helen Zille tried to defend her Tweets about colonialism not many were willing to accept her logic and for a while it looked like the leader of the DA Mmusi Maimane was also ready to ditch his colleague and premier of the Western Cape. Despite the outrage and an initial lack of apology (in fact articles in defense of the Tweets) she finally relented and DA leader Mmusi Maimane allowed her a partial return to the party structure. Was he right? You be the judge. Here are her Tweets: “Much to learn from Singapore, colonised for as long as SA, and under brutal occupation in WW2. Can we apply the lessons in our democracy?” “Singapore had no natural resources and 50 years ago was poorer than most African countries. Now they soar. What are the lessons?” “I think Singapore lessons are: 1) Meritocracy; 2) Multiculturalism; 3) Work ethic; 4) Open to globalism; 4) English. 5) Future orientation.” https://twitter.com/PMahumapelo/status/940529571971190785 Gerrie Nel Advocate Gerrie Nel, famous for his prosecution of Oscar Pistorius and Jackie Selebi, joined lobby group Afriforum to head its private prosecutions unit. His choice of people to prosecute was not unexpected: Duduzane Zuma, for the 2014 accident in which Phumzile Dube died and Grace Mugabe for the assault with an extension cord on model Gabriella Engels in the Capital 20 West Hotel. He was not on site at the Supreme Court of Appeal to celebrate when Pistorius’ sentence for the 2013 Valentine’s Day murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp was increased from six to 13 years. Grace Mugabe Once placed as a possible successor to her husband Robert Mugabe, Grace Mugabe gained infamy for the alleged assault of model Gabriella Engels in a Joburg hotel. Her lucky break with the 11th-hour diplomatic immunity given to her by the SA government for the assault was short lived. The rest of the year was a nightmare, her husband deposed, talk of a divorce and now a host of investigations.  