FAMILIES of psychiatric patients who died in the Esidimeni tragedy are waiting to hear if Gauteng health’s suspended head of department Dr Tiego Selebano will testify at the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing. This as the South Gauteng High Court is expected to make its ruling today following an application by Selebano to have the subpoena forcing him to testify at the arbitration hearing set aside. On Wednesday, judge Daniel Berger reserved his judgment on Selebano’s application. Berger is expected to deliver his judgment today, the same day Selebano was scheduled to testify before the hearing led by justice Dikgang Moseneke. Selebano’s lawyer, advocate Craig Watt-Pringle, last week argued that his client did not need to testify at the proceedings as the state had already conceded negligence. Watt-Pringle also argued that the proceedings chaired by Moseneke were not an arbitration hearing but a commission of inquiry and as such should be declared a commission of inquiry. He also argued that under the Arbitration Act, the state did not have the power to issue a subpoena. Selebano argued in court papers that testifying at the tribunal might lead to him incriminating himself. His efforts to avoid testifying at the proceedings comes after his colleague, Dr Makgabo Manamela, also tried to avoid testifying at the same proceedings. Manamela previously refused to testify, bringing an application to have the proceedings postponed and demanded that she be furnished with papers and evidence by Moseneke before she could testify. Through her lawyer. Lerato Mashilane, Manamela argued that she could not testify at the proceedings as her testimony would be used against her in a disciplinary hearing by her employer, the Gauteng department of health. His application was dismissed by Moseneke leaving her with no choice but to take the stand. Selebano was one of three key figures who signed off on the deadly and chaotic patient transfers from Life Healthcare Esidimeni to 27 ill equipped and unlicensed community NGOs across the province. At least 143 patients died under suspicious circumstances after they were moved to the NGOs. -LERATO DIALEleratod@thenewage.co.za