The past year brought its fair share of legal drama with a number of cases leaving South Africans stunned and enthralled. Karabo Mokoena another statistic of gender-based violence. News of the brutal murder of Karabo Mokoena shook the country, leading to calls for more to be done to curb the alarming levels of gender-based violence in the country and the protection of women and children. Mokoena’s charred remains were found in an open field in Lyndhurst in Johannesburg in April shortly after she was reported missing by her family and friends. Her then boyfriend Sandile Mantsoe, 27, was charged with her murder. He has denied killing her. However, he admitted disposing of her body. Mantsoe’s trial has been set for March 15 next year. The Van Breda case If truth is stranger than fiction then the Henri van Breda murder trial is surely proof of that. Van Breda is accused of hacking his both his parents, Martin and Teresa and older brother Rudi to death with an axe. His sister Marli was critically injured. Although she has recovered physically, she cannot recall the events leading up to the tragedy. The trial took 63 days and a long list of witnesses gave evidence, among them neurologist Dr James Butler. The 23-year-old accused has consistently claimed that his parents and brother were killed by an axe-wielding intruder. But the state has been poking holes in Van Breda’s testimony, highlighting inconsistencies in his evidence. The trial has been postponed to February 2018 Alleged predator on the loose News of a 57-year-old scholar patroller who is alleged to have sexually assaulted at least 87 pupils at a Soweto primary school was met with outrage by authorities, community members and parents alike this year The man was arrested and charged with at least three counts of rape and eight counts of sexual abuse based on initial statements taken from at least 15 pupils at the time. The man remains behind bars after he abandoned his bail bid at his last appearance. The case has been postponed to January 19 next year. Nigerian pastor’s dramatic arrest Nigerian pastor Timothy Omotoso’s dramatic arrest following the airing of an SABC Special Assignment TV programme earlier this year caused major controversy, with many South Africans welcoming his arrest and his loyal congregation slamming the move. Throughout his legal woes, his congregation has remained unwavering in its support for the self-proclaimed prophet. Omotoso was arrested after several women came forward claiming that they had been sexually abused by the televangelist. The Jesus Dominion International pastor’s luck ran out in April when police arrested him at the Port Elizabeth airport. This after he reportedly twice tried to evade arrest by members of the Hawks and the SAPS. Omotoso, 58, is facing 48 charges which includes, among others, rape, sexual assault, human trafficking and contraventions of the Immigration Act. He has suffered two failed bail applications and is expected to appear in court next year. Coffin assault case Justice prevailed this year after two farm employees who filmed themselves forcing a terrified Victor Mlotshwa into a coffin were found guilty of attempted murder, kidnapping and intimidation and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. The case racially divided many on social media who labelled the pair’s conduct as racist while others argued that their behaviour was purely criminal. The pair were sentenced to a combined 35 years in jail. Willem Oosthuizen, 29, was slapped with a 16-year jail sentence, five of which were suspended, while Theo Jackson was sentenced to 19 years, five of which were suspended. Oscar gets more than he bargained for Convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius was dealt another blow when the Supreme Court of Appeal increased his sentence to 13 years. This after the state appealed his initial sentence, saying it was too lenient. Pistorius has filed papers in the Constitutional Court appealing against the 13-year murder sentence. President Jacob Zuma in court Zuma was this month dealt a blow when his attempt to review former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s State of Capture report in the high court drew a blank. His application to set aside Madonsela’s remedial action was dismissed. Zuma suffered a second blow when judge president Dunstan Mlambo ordered that he personally pay the legal bills. leratod@thenewage.co.za