The year 2017 came with defining moments and remarkable achievements in the sporting fraternity with records broken from boxing to race tracks and the green fields. 1: One 18 November at the SSE Arena in Belfast, London, 29-year-old South African boxer and WBO bantamweight champion Zolani Tete made history when he knocked out Siboniso Gonya in just 11 seconds and recorded the quickest ever world title fight in boxing history. The Eastern Cape-born fighter beat the 17 seconds previous record that was set in a fight between Daniel Jimenez and Harald Geier in the 90s.  2: On an international scale again, in April, South African professional baseball shortstop Gift Ngoepe made history by becoming the first South African and African to play Major League Baseball (MLB) in America. This was after making his debut for the Pittsburgh Pirates. The 27-year-old’s achievement was celebrated by South Africans despite the prominence of the sport in the country.  3: In the green fields, in February, Mamelodi Sundowns beat giants TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and became the second South African team to win the CAF African Super Cup after over 20  years since Orlando Pirates.  4: In Rugby, the Blitzboks were crowned the World Rugby Sevens Series champions. The success made it South Africa’s second ever World Series title.  5: On the race tracks, South African athlete and sporting star Wayde van Niekerk won Gold in the 400m in London. The athlete also won silver in the 200m race.  6: On the golf scene, in November, South African golfer Branden Grace also made history by becoming the first South African to win the Nedbank Golf Challenge after it had been won by Trevor Immelman in 2007.  7: In disappointing announcements, despite the vigorous campaign, high presidential delegation including Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa behind the Rugby team, South Africa lost out on the right to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup. This was despite it being announced recommended hosts.  -TNA Reporter