FINANCE Minister Malusi Gigaba weighed in on the Steinhoff saga yesterday, saying that as a listed company on the JSE, investors rightly expect the highest degree of honesty and integrity from companies like Steinhoff. “The minister supports the decision by the Financial Services Board (FSB) to institute an independent investigation into possible false and misleading reports and related abuses,” the Treasury said yesterday. “This over and above an internal investigation by the JSE to probe the extent of the accounting irregularities at Steinhoff.” Gigaba has asked the retirement funds regulator at the FSB, Public Investment Corporation (PIC) and the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) to provide him with a report on the extent of the exposure of retirement funds. Meanwhile, organised business has come under attack for its muted response to the Steinhoff scandal which resulted in billions of rands of value being wiped off the JSE. This includes about R12bn under management of the PIC, which manages workers pensions. Business Leadership SA (BLSA) washed its hands of the affair yesterday. BLSA said Steinhoff was not a member of the lobby group. “No company associated with Steinhoff is a member of BLSA, including Shoprite-Checkers,” it said. Attempts to get comments from BLSA CEO Bonang Mohale and Business Unity South Africa proved fruitless. Instead, BLSA yesterday opted to comment on the saga surrounding MultiChoice. It insisted on describing it as “a gravely concerning state capture and corruption allegation” against one of its members. However, the Black Business Council (BBC) condemned Steinhoff and its executives for “unethical and corrupt behaviour”. “This corruption has caused workers and pensioners to lose more than R10bn. “We are aware that in the entire executive committee of Steinhoff, there is neither a black man nor woman,” CEO of the BBC Kganki Matabane said yesterday. Matabane said such behaviour from corporations could “only negatively affect the way our country is viewed by international investors”. Some observers said the muted response from some business lobby groups exposed the deep-rooted corruption by white monopoly capital. The JSE said yesterday it had considered all the facts in the matter and information at its disposal and had decided not to suspend the listing of Steinhoff International or halt trading of its shares in the South African market. bernards@thenewage.co.za