ANC veterans and stalwarts have called on ANC delegates, who will be voting for the party leadership, to be guided by policy. The veterans called for urgent action against leaders and members of the ANC who face damaging allegations of improper conduct. They said they had always called for the evaluation of how undemocratic practices are becoming prevalent in the party. “What is needed is a comprehensive, honest evaluation of how we can break from undemocratic practices within our movement and ensure that we have a political party where its membership and especially its leadership are always beyond reproach,” the veterans said. They believe that many of the leaders within the ruling party have broken the law and should have their time in court. The veterans have also condemned Bathabile Dlamini’s attack on the North Gauteng High Court ruling that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa appoint a new National Director of Public Prosecutions. The court ruled that President Jacob Zuma could not make the appointment. “No rational person would argue that there is judicial overreach when an elected representative finds themselves in prison because they have been caught stealing.” The veterans have also supported several ANC members who have approached several courts seeking redress saying they cannot have a political a party unnecessarily divided because its own leadership fails to ensure its internal democratic systems are fair. They said the ball was now in the delegates’ court to make the right decisions on behalf of the ANC. “Delegates at the elective conference now have a simple choice in the way they conduct themselves and the way they vote at this conference. They can either condone or condemn corruption and looting.” “We all know there has been no ‘urgency’ to tackle the abuse of power. As part of
‘state capture’, law enforcement agencies and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) have been contaminated, paralysed and unable to perform their duties without fear or favour.” They said the elective conference would have ignored a call by the people if any person elected was tainted by corruption. “The conference will be seen to have ignored the clarion call of our people if any person elected to positions of power are tainted with relationships that are corrupt.” The veterans said the real test would be if the conference agreed to a far-reaching evaluation of the present state of the party, its constitution and its own compliance with South Africa’s constitutional democracy. They said there was also a need to recommit to the constitutional democracy and the law of the land, real achievements of the ANC, the ANC that the overwhelming majority of South Africans once supported. -TNA Reporter