Non-profit organisation Right To Care says significant advances have been made to manage children living with HIV/Aids and reducing the number of new HIV infections among children in South Africa, with prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) as one of the major successes. Right to Care today released a statement looking back on the progress made regarding the reduction of HIV transmission in babies. The organisation supports and delivers care, treatment and prevention services for HIV and TB. Right To Care pediatric medical advisor Dr Julia Turner says, in over 10 years, the PMTCT programme has reduced HIV transmission in babies from approximately 30% to less than 2%. Turner has emphasised the key elements to improve HIV prevention and treatment in children who are infected. The first is the PMTCT programme, which has helped achieve about 28% reduction of HIV transmission in babies. It requires that all pregnant or breastfeeding women are tested for HIV on a regular basis and start taking ARVs if they are positive. The second is birth testing and diagnosis, which was introduced in 2015. It has enabled HIV infected infants to be diagnosed at birth and put on treatment immediately, which is an improvement as it used be six weeks. The National Health Laboratory Service has also developed an advanced database which allows healthcare workers to track patients and put them on life-saving ARV therapy as soon as possible. Right To Care has also shared the challenges it faces, such as: ensuring that infants take the ARV medication everyday, sometimes more than once a day. Adolescent Psychosocial Programme manager Dr Marnie Vujovic says: “Waiting until children enter adolescence before telling them about their HIV status can be detrimental. Adolescence is the worst time to disclose because a young person is already coming to terms with other rapid changes that are taking place. Disclosure needs to take place well before adolescence.” “HIV in children, adolescents and adults can be so easily controlled if everyone with HIV knows their status and takes ARVs consistently,” Dr Turner said. -TNA Reporter