THE proposal that the ANC enforce land expropriation without compensation is set to come under intense scrutiny as more than 4000 voting delegates gather at the party’s 54th national elective conference in Nasrec, Johannesburg, at the weekend. If the ANC’s policy conference is anything to go by, the heated land debate issue, which has seen some ANC leaders oppose each other on how to deal with the matter, is among key issues set to dominate discussions around economic policies at the conference. While some senior ANC leaders who include axed tourism minister Derek Hanekom had come out publicly against the proposal, President Jacob Zuma described the policy as “necessary and unavoidable”. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukaitobi said the Eastern Cape – which is the ANC’s third largest with a 648-strong delegation set to attend the conference – would be pushing for the amendment of the nation’s Constitution to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation. “We need to review the laws in the Constitution to make it easier for the government to expropriate land without compensation,” Ngcukaitobi said. ANC chairperson of the national executive committee subcommittee on economic transformation Enoch Godongwana recently weighed in on the debate. Godongwana insisted that if the policy was adopted at the conference, the party would have no qualms in devising legislative procedures to take the matter further. Ngcukaitobi said that the debate was “long overdue” and that the state should fast track its efforts of determining who owned land in the country and what the value was. “We need to determine the value of land in the process. The government must appoint a land valuer because those who own land have been determining the prices themselves. “By 2019 we hope that we should have acted on the matter of the Constitution, we are already behind schedule,” Ngcukaitobi said. ANC Free State provincial spokesperson Thabo Meeko said the province’s 409 delegates at the conference would block attempts, even from within the ANC, to derail its plans for pushing the ANC to adopt a more aggressive posture on land reform. “Those people themselves are products of economic transformation, but we will not allow them to stand in the way of the transformation of our country,” Meeko said. He said that land reform was central to restoring the dignity of the black majority in the country. “We must transform the economy and we must find a balance. “The wealth of this country must be shared among the people. This is part the country’s transformation project,” he said. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za 