WHILE urging for gains of the revolution are not to be reversed, ANC Free State chairperson Ace Magashule was of the belief that black people had only now got their dignity back. Magashule was addressing delegates during ANC’s Free State conference at the weekend. This as he mentioned that the ANC has helped black people regain their dignity in spite of the media not reporting on the good work done. “Our dignity is back, black man. Your dignity is back, do not reverse the gains of the revolution. Don’t retreat, advance. No more steps backwards,” Magashule said. Magashule defended The New Age while saying he did not understand why some in the country’s majority were afraid to invest in the publication compared to when the National Party government funded the Volksblad newspaper. The New Age was founded by the Gupta family and last week celebrated its 7th birthday. And even under new leadership by Mzwanele Manyi the newspaper still faces attacks from mainstream media. Magashule lambasted white monopoly capital (WMC) as the reason behind the undermining of the likes of The New Age. “There is white capital, it’s there. It’s white, it has been there for years and dominated by white media. Why can’t you accept that?” Magashule said. Ahead of the ANC national elective conference which starts on Saturday, WMC is regarded to form part of the discussions among the highly anticipated election of the next ANC president. Magashule reaffirmed to the delegates that radical economic transformation was an ANC policy which was put in place to realign South Africa’s economy. “Radical economic transformation is your resolution – there is white monopoly capital. If we said there is no colour, race. Show us one black who is ‘black capital’? Show us one black who owns the means of production? Show us, tell us who owns property? Who owns land?” Magashule said. Magashule is tipped to remain chairperson, ever after the controversy that has marred the ANC Free State’s leadership. dennisc@thenewage.co.za -Dennis Cruywagen