THE ANCYL has questioned the “thin coverage” on he “Steinhoff corruption”. Last week it came to light that international retailer and Johannesburg Stock Exchange-listed Steinhoff had allegedly committed corruption exceeding R300bn. Last week ANC presidential candidate Cyril Ramaphosa joined the fray in condemning corruption, saying he is “concerned about South Africa’s economy amid the challenges of corruption and state capture”. Throwing a spanner in the works, the ANCYL said: “Corruption should be corruption, maladministration should be maladministration, irrespective of which race does it.” League spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize told The New Age yesterday that although he doesn’t want to speculate on why Ramaphosa, as the head of government business, has been “quiet” on the Steinhoff scandal, Mkhize said further investigation was needed. “Deputy President Ramaphosa might have views on the matter but has not addressed them in the public domain,”Mkhize said. “This appears to be a well orchestrated strategy to loot retirement funds of public servants.” When Mkhize was asked whether he believed Ramaphosa was silent on white corruption – compared to being vocal on alleged corruption by black people, Mkhize replied, “if that is the case it would be very unfortunate”. Ramaphosa spoke out against corruption last week, saying “we must stand together to eradicate corruption and grow an economy that benefits all”. In a radio interview Ramaphosa said South Africa’s economy could grow at a faster rate and that the government had been diverted by self-interest and state capture. “I believe that our economy is not a one or two-percent growth economy. “I believe it can grow at 4% and we can revitalise our economy if we do the right things. “We have realised that corruption is rife and we are going to address it. “We are going to root out corruption and that is a promise I can make,” Ramaphosa said. With the branch nomination processes closed, Ramaphosa has the lead in terms of his chances to be the next ANC president. Ramaphosa has the backing of five ANC provincial branches, namely Gauteng, Limpopo, Western, Eastern, and Northern Cape – while Dlamini Zuma has KwaZulu-Natal and the Free State. refilwem@thenewage.co.za -Refilwe Magashule