PREMIER David Makhura said disciplinary processes and criminal investigations are under way to ensure that those responsible are brought to book regarding the Life Esidimeni tragedy, which resulted in the deaths of 143 mentally ill patients. Tabling the fourth political report yesterday, Makhura said no one should escape accountability. “The Life Esidimeni tragedy exposed deep institutional problems within Gauteng public health system. Serious governance failures compromised the quality of care of millions of people who depend on the government public health system, especially the poor and most vulnerable sections of society such as those who use mental health services,” Makhura said. He said urgent steps needed to be taken to turn around the performance of the provincial department of health. Makhura said it is for this reason that, in addition to appointing the Special Cabinet Committee, the provincial and national government have jointly appointed an intervention team of public health experts and managers to support health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa in turning around the performance of the Gauteng department of health by attending to all the deep structural and financial problems. “We are confident this intervention will succeed.” He said the deaths of 143 mental health patients was a tragedy that could have been avoided. “We are working with the affected families to ensure that all the recommendations and corrective steps outlined in Health Ombud Report by Prof Malegapuru Makgoba are fully implemented to ensure that there is full accountability, justice and closure for the families. “All those involved in this tragedy need to understand that there can be no closure for the families without full disclosure. No closure without accountability and answerability,” he said. Makhura said the fourth political report was dedicated to the youth of Gauteng. “In order to eliminate unemployment in Gauteng, there is a need to create 5 400 jobs per day and to halve unemployment 2 700 jobs need to be created per day,” Makhura said. At the beginning of this year, the Gauteng provincial government decided to up-scale its youth initiative Tshepo 500000 to #Tshepo 1 Million. The initiative provides young people with demand-led skills and competencies to enhance employability, self-employment and entrepreneurial development through a public-private partnership. This includes the training of 1 million youth in digital skills demanded by the digital economy and the integration of the youth in the exponential and explosive growth of the township economy. “Since December 2014, 437000 young people have benefited from Tshepo 1 Million. Our target is to reach 1 million young people by 2019. Working with the private sector and young people like Hip Hop artist Cassper Nyovest who filled up the FNB Stadium and employed 70 youth in his campaign and his peers in the cultural and creative industries, we can surpass this target,” Makhura said. He said he was glad to report that the number of township enterprises that do business with the provincial government has dramatically increased from 642 in 2014 to 4 182 in October 2017. He revealed that the public procurement spend on township enterprises by provincial departments and municipalities in Gauteng is now more than R10bn. The township economy is much friendlier to the youth start-up enterprises and through Tshepo 1 Million, there is a dedicated focus on supporting youth enterprises, especially in franchising. “GPG will spend R46bn on infrastructure investment over the next three years, while our cities and municipalities will spend an additional R50bn. This infrastructure spend will have a major social, economic and spatial impact on the people and the economy of our province.” He said he was worried that when it comes to infrastructure budget, municipalities are underspending which is why he is going to have a meeting with Gauteng mayors today. ntombin@thenewage.co.za