TWO bizarre trials involving muti killings concluded in KZN this year left the public stunned and revolted by the cruelty of the perpetrators. The murder trial of Desiree Murugan, who was beheaded by teenagers in 2014, on the promise of R2m by a sangomas (traditional healers) came to a conclusion in October in the Durban High Court. Sibonakaliso Mbili, Thuso Thelejane, Mlungisi Ndlovu and Mbali Magwala were all found guilty in January by Judge Thoba Poyo-Dlwathi following a three-year trial in to the murder that rocked Chatsworth on August 2014. The headless body of the mother of one was found by municipal cleaners at the Shallcross Sports Ground on August 18, 2014. Murugan, 37, had been murdered the previous night by six suspects, four of whom were under the age of 18. She had been stabbed 192 times and her head hacked off with a bush-knife while she was still breathing. Falakhe Khumalo, then 19, made a startling confession that the plot had been devised almost a year before the murder of Murugan. Khumalo said that in 2013 he had visited Mbili, a tradition healer, to find a cure for his persistent STD and then returned once more when his father suffered a stroke. Mbili, is a well-known traditional healer from Mfume on the south coast. “He (Mbili) said he would pay R2m for the head of either a coloured, white or an Indian woman,” Khumalo said. From that confession would arise one of the country’s biggest muti killing cases, opening the lid on the nefarious role of some traditional healers who exploit desperate people. Murugan’s head was found buried in a tin container located in Mfume almost a week later, on August 22, 2014, near the home of Mbili. Mbili was then arrested along his apprentice Vusumuzi Gumede, who was acquitted of all charges in January after two years in jail waiting for the conclusion of the trial. In sentencing Mbili to life imprisonment for his role in the murder, PoyoDlwathi said the court could not be seen as being lenient to muti killers. “There’s no doubt that there is a prevalence of this type of crime in the province and stern sentencing must be a deterrent but also consider rehabilitation. “No matter your beliefs or religion, they cannot trample on another’s rights or life. Society is sick and tired of these heinous crimes. Society needs to see stern sentencing from the courts as a sign that these abhorrent crimes will not be tolerated,” Poyo-Dlwathi said. Thelejane, who was responsible for hacking off Murugan’s head, received 15 years imprisonment while Ndlovu , who was the look-out person as well as the assistant during the murder, also received a 15-year jail sentence. Magwala who was a 16-year-old mother at the time of the murder and responsible for finding a murder victim and washing Murugan’s severed head, was given a 12-year jail term. Earlier in the year another traditional healer, Elias Sihle Mchunu, was sentenced to life and 45 years imprisonment a the Pietermaritzburg High Court after being found guilty of dealing in human body parts used in his muti as well as the murders and kidnapping of Nawaaz Khan and Bawinile Albertina Gambushe, in Chandinagar, Amanzimtoti, in 2015. During the trial it emerged that Duma met Mchunu at his home in the Msholozi informal settlement where he had come for a consultation to help him solve his problems with his girlfriend and his family. Mchunu had already killed Gambushe and severed her head with a bushknife and stole some of her body parts, allegedly told Duma that his problems could also be solved using muti made from using an Indian human head. sibongisenim@thenewage