City of Tshwane gathered on Friday at Leamogetswe Safety Home with Multi-Party Caucus’ members, Multi-Party Women Caucus’ members and officials from the Office of the Chief whip; to commemorate World AIDS day and also raise their hands to be counted during the 16 Days of Activism against Women and Child abuse.
In 2006 the United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan declared that violence against women and children is a problem of pandemic proportions. This gave birth to the campaign of ’16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence’. As campaigns are conducted throughout the country, The City of Tshwane is also taking part, raising their hands to stand against Gender-based violence. In a statement, Chief Whip of council said that the gathering is not just to fulfilling all righteousness or to highlight the issues during the commemoration period, however, its because communities are shattered by these issues and it affects everyone.
The chief whip of the council Christo Vander Heever said our parliament has passed laws to protect the rights of individuals against this unspeakable abuse, however, it is a responsibility of each and everyone gathered to stand up and be counted as being against abuse of all types.
“women are givers of life, let us not be the ones to take their. Its up to us to teach our youngsters, especially boys, respect and guide them along the right path,” Vander Heever said.
The Chief whip also added that with the same urgency the community should pay attention to matters related to HIV AIDS.
“Today is a day of solemn remembrance of those we lost to this virus, and as we pay tribute to them it is important that we acknowledge the need for greater education about this killer. Awareness is the crucial first step to combating the spread of HIV and coupled with education it plays a vital role in decreasing the rampant spread of the virus,” Vander Heever said. In the statement, Vander Heever emphasised that everyone is affected by HIV AIDS, and therefore everyone should to work together to fight this disease.
The Chief whip of council also appreciates Leamogetswe Safety Home that sets an example of working to fight these issues together.
In tribute to this day and its message, Vander Heever leaves the community with the words of Vaclav Havel: “Human rights are universal and indivisible. Human freedom is also indivisible: if it is denied to anyone in the world, it is therefore denied indirectly to all people. This is why we cannot remain silent in the face of evil or violence; silence merely encourages them”. -TNA Reporter