IT HAS become clear in the past few weeks the role Naspers’ head honcho Koos Bekker played in monopolising the digital television space in our country and the lengths he has
gone to defend his stranglehold. Naspers is the parent company of Multichoice, which has millions of subscribers in SA and across the African continent. While the noise around state capture has focused solely on one family, Bekker’s alleged actions, intimidation, threats and even coercion, have given
pause for thought on how many others may be guilty of influencing policy and legislation. Former communications minister Yunus Carrim was quoted as having said “that Bekker actively lobbied him to change government policy on digital migration to help ensure Multichoice remained the only player in the pay television sector”. Then there’s the relationship between former SABC chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng and former Multichoice CEO Imtiaz Patel. Motsoeneng may have been a political appointment, but his corporate handlers clearly had more influence in his decision making processes and more so in the process of SA’s migration to digital television. Naspers is accused of paying the SABC R500m and ANN7 millions to secure influence
over the digital migration plan. The widely publicised SABC board minutes, dated June 6, 2013, read: “suggesting that Multichoice sought to pay the SABC R100m for its 24-hour news channel in exchange for the public broadcaster’s political influence over digital migration”. The minutes form part of hundreds of documents provided by the SABC in December last year to the ad hoc committee on the SABC inquiry and support allegations in media reports last week that Multichoice paid ANN7 millions in exchange for similar influence over government’s position on set-top boxes. The minutes reveal a “clandestine” meeting attended by former SABC board members and executives, including Ellen Tshabalala, Motsoeneng, Lulama Makhobo and Jimi Matthews, with then CEO of Multichoice, Patel. For several years the government had been trumpeting that every household in SA would have a set-top box which would enable the entire television-watching population access to digital television and a wider choice of viewing options. Recently, newly appointed Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane sought to assure the South African public of the government’s commitment to the digital
migration plan. “The reduction of the digital divide globally and especially in the African continent means that more and more people have access to information. The Department of Communications plays a leading role in the rollout of Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT), which is the migration of the country from analogue to digital broadcasting. “The DTT will further help to narrow the digital divide. With an increased number of people able to access information it should be easy for people to gain a greater understanding of science and health threats in their environment.” This kind of nation-building talk by the minister does not interest the likes of Bekker, whom Carrim in one interview described as someone who was starting to believe his own hype. An untouchable of sorts who did not want anyone playing in his digital TV sandbox. “Mr Bekker conveniently forgets the meeting we had in Cape Town within a month of my appointment which he requested and Multichoice CEO, Imtiaz Patel, several times urged. “Bekker’s main purpose was to persuade me about the folly of set-top box encryption, and seemed irritated that I would not agree with him and chose instead to refer the conflicts about it to a mediation process to seek a compromise. “Because Bekker served on major government ICT panels and had done very well in media industry, he almost saw himself as an advisor to me, as somebody new to the sector. And yet because of his vested profit and other interests in the pay-TV sector he obviously couldn’t play any such role. He seemed annoyed that I couldn’t see how brilliant he is,” Carrim said. What (white) monopoly capital, right? We need to unlearn our ideas of corruption (and who fits the profile) in our thinking and understand where there are vested interests and where there is money to be made and more importantly lost, a convergence of interests will decide on policy and legislation which affects us all. And not for the benefit of the many but for the few. Long before the Mzi Kumalos, the Motsepes or the Guptas – the Bekkers, Ruperts, and Wieses of the world were wielding influence over government policy with their deep pockets
and status. Their goal is not nation building, it is being disrupters, but in the worst possible way. They have been allowed to run roughshod over process and policy and continue to get away with it, using their wealth to pay off those with weak constitutions and weaker values. They have to be stopped in their tracks if we are to imagine and realise a prosperous country, one we all share the same vision for and not just where the few continue to live large (sadly white) – while the majority of our country stand at the shop window waiting for the crumbs (sadly black). We have to take on these corporate behemoths and make them toe the line or we will continue to be unwitting victims to some of the greatest crimes to be perpetrated upon us as a society -Matuba Meokgo: secretary-general of the ANC Womens League