ANC presidential hopeful and Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu says she is yet to apply her mind to who she will support if she does not win the vote at the ANC’s national elective conference. Speaking to The New Age, Sisulu commented on her nominations from four ANC provincial branches namely, Gauteng, Limpopo, Western and Northern Cape, to be the party’s deputy president – and on the so-called two-horse race and Mpumalanga’s call for a “unity” candidate. Despite the race for the ANC presidency being apparently between Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and ANC MP Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Sisulu said debate over a two-horse race was premature. “While the branch nominations’ processes have been closed, the ANC constitution provides for nominations to still be made on the conference floor. “It is therefore premature to already be talking about a so-called two horse for a “unity” candidate. Despite the race for the ANC presidency being apparently between Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and ANC MP Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Sisulu said debate over a two-horse race was premature. “While the branch nominations’ processes have been closed, the ANC constitution provides for nominations to still be made on the conference floor. “It is therefore premature to already be talking about a so-called two horse race. Let us wait until the right time and that is when I will apply my mind as to how I will be voting,” Sisulu said. Regarding her nominations for ANC deputy president, she said: “I am humbled by the nominations outcomes, not only in the provinces you mentioned but across our country, given that we started late with our campaign while on a shoestring budget.” Referring to her campaign slogan, It’s A Must and its message of recapturing “the right path of humility, selflessness, moral uprightness and service to the people”, Sisulu said: “My nominations are probably an indication that branches are hearing and taking our campaign to heart,” Sisulu said. While ANC Mpumalanga has nominated for a “unity” candidate, Sisulu said it was unfortunate that the unity concept was still undefined and efforts will be made to engage Premier David Mabuza in order to provide clarity on what he is advocating. refilwem@thenewage.co.za -Refilwe Magashule  