Minister of Public Enterprises Lynne Brown has on Friday announced the new Eskom board. This comes after names of possible candidates were discussed in Wednesday’s cabinet meeting and were expected to be in place by November 30, but due to the cabinet meeting postponed to this week, Brown could not make an announcement. Cabinet approved the new board on a 3-year term subject to an annual review and expressed support for Brown’s strategy to recruit specialist business expertise to fill additional vacant Board positions prior to the Annual General Meeting in June 2018. The new Eskom Board approved by Cabinet this week comprises (current interim Board members) Chairperson Mr Zethembe Khoza, Dr Pat Naidoo, Mr Giovanni Leonardi, Dr Pulane Molokwane, Mr Simphiwe Dingaan, Dr Banothile Makhubela, Mr Sathiaseelan Gounden, (and new Board members) Professor Malegapuru Makgoba and Professor Tshepo Mongalo. “Professor Makgoba is an internationally recognised public health advocate and is the current Health Ombud of South Africa. “He is a former Principal of the University of KwaZulu-Natal and is the current Deputy Chair of the National Planning Commission. He is highly regarded as a transformation and ethics authority, and well versed in government policy, corporate governance and human resources,” Ministry of Public Enterprise said in a statement. Professor Mongalo is also a legal practitioner and academic, expert in company law and familiar with the environment within which State-Owned Companies operate and served as Vice-Chairperson of the Department of Trade and Industry’s Specialist Committee on Company Law. An additional candidate, who has business strategy expertise was approved by Cabinet but ultimately declined his nomination citing the highly-charged environment in which Eskom is operating. “This situation reflects the difficulty the Minister has faced in putting together a strong Board including people of the necessary calibre and leadership gravitas. “In terms of the Memorandum of Incorporation (MOI) read together with the Board appointment framework, Minister Brown is required to test the eligibility of directors through consideration of best practice, which includes a proper balance of skills, demographics, generation mix and tenure,” the department said. Minister Brown is set to instruct the board that the appointment of a new Group Chief Executive is an absolute priority. The Board, to be led by Mr Khoza, until the 2018 Annual General Meeting, will be further reinforced by filling the vacancies with appropriate expertise from the business sector. It will be strengthened by Minister Brown talking to business organisations in order to fill the 4 vacant positions. Minister Brown thanked the other Board members for steering Eskom through this difficult environment and ensuring that the company is stable and continue supporting the South African economy.    -TNA Reporter    