THE South African Police Service has become synonymous with police officers indifferent to the plight of women who are victims of sexual and gender-based violence. What hope for justice is there for women who are victims of such heinous crimes when the very institution that is meant to assist them in attaining justice deems it fit to accept bribes just to make cases “disappear”? Is this not the equivalent of blood money? It is appalling and highly disturbing to read accounts by perpetrators of rape who confess to paying measly bribes for their dockets to disappear from police stations. The SAPS is deeply wounded by wage issues and corruption to the extent that policemen and policewomen have become desensitised even to serious forms of violence that women experience on a daily basis. The South African Law Commission research report on the outcome of reported cases revealed that only 7% of reported rapes in South Africa had resulted in a conviction after two years – and said that this low conviction rate can be attributed to problems with discipline and morale in the police. There was much ado about nothing over Fikile Mbalula’s six-point plan for police stations to assist women victims of abuse. We were “razzmatazzed” by this seemingly brilliant plan yet a recent survey conducted in all provinces revealed that most members of the police service remain ignorant of the purpose of this plan. South Africa is no stranger to brilliant policies and plans. In fact, we have some of the best policies in the world but these fail dismally at the implementation level. Anyone who has had to report a crime at a police station will attest to the inefficient service received. Batho Pele, which sought to put people first, is clearly also failing in this regard. It is also disturbing to note various media reports detailing that the minister of police recently spent a massive amount of cash on 169 torchlights whereas these funds could have been channelled to better use in integrating the six-point plan into the work of the
SAPS. Women are not being treated with the dignity and respect they deserve at police stations when they report crimes against themselves. The recently launched Violence against Women report by the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation reveals that women perceive the police to be secondary perpetrators of abuse through their indifference to their plight. It leaves a bad taste in one’s mouth to note that soon after the unveiling of this plan police officers are still notorious for their unwillingness to readily assist the public as demonstrated by the recent video that went viral on social media, showing a police officer attending to personal matters while there was a growing queue of citizens waiting to report crimes. This behaviour appears to be representative of the treatment that women ought to expect when they attempt to report a violation against themselves. It is gut-wrenching to read of metropolitan police officers who raped a woman on the roadside instead of coming to her aid. The CSVR (2017) report further indicates that there is a deep-rooted societal mistrust of the police service. Women simply do not feel safe to walk into a police station and report a crime. Police officers often make victims feel uncomfortable and insinuate that the violent act against her was her own fault. The SAPS can no longer afford to persist in its business-as-usual antics in relation to
women who are victims of violence. There is an urgent need for all police officers to be trained on the implementation of the sixpoint plan if it is to yield any success stories. During this 16 Days of Activism for no violence against women and children, the Centre
for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation is running a campaign dubbed #EverydayPerpetrators. This is an important campaign as it will allow various institutions, including the police, to self-introspect and reflect on the different ways they have directly or indirectly contributed to being everyday perpetrators of violence against women. It is time we named them for exactly what they are and called them to action. In a society that is governed by the principles of ubuntu, equity and justice, the conduct
of members of the SAPS is detrimental in bringing to justice the perpetrators of crimes
against women. It is high time that the police minister took notable steps in the implementation of the sixpoint plan to ensure its efficacy. Nonsikelelo Ncube is the personal assistant to the executive director of the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation.