ANC delegates at the party’s 54th National Elective Conference have agreed to speed up the process of land expropriation without compensation, by amending section 25 of the Constitution. This was revealed by ANC Economic Transformation Commission chair Enoch Godongwana on Wednesday. “We agree that the National Executive Committee (NEC) will initiate some amendment in the Constitution of section 25 in order to achieve expropriation of land without compensation,” Godongwana said. Godongwana said a “robust debate” had ensued over the land question and had culminated in an agreement that the process would have to be handled in a manner which ensured sustainability. However, the debate over the highly contentious issue also became heated to a point where delegates nearly came to blows over the matter. Godongwana admitted that the debate over expropriation without compensation had “threatened to collapse the conference”. He said newly elected National Chairperson Gwede Mantashe had to intervene in order to calm rowdy delegates down. Despite taking a step forward by announcing its intention to kick-start the process towards expropriation, the ANC has held off on confirming any definite timelines for the process. The ruling party has also been non-committal as far as a target of expropriated land it seeks to reach is concerned. “There is no cut off date. The NEC is given sufficient scope to do the necessary work which will help them make an informed decision.” In an off the cuff comment, Godongwana said that if it were up to him, he would “expropriate, expropriate, expropriate.” Meanwhile, following Godongwana’s announcement, EFF Secretary-General Godrich Gardee took to Twitter to express that the red berets remained willing to work with the ruling party around the question of land  expropriation. At the top of this year, the ANC caucus in Parliament voted against a motion brought by the EFF to establish an ad hoc committee to amend section 25 of the Constitution. Following the defeat of its motion, the EFF accused the ANC of refusing “to implement an aspect that is essential to radical economic transformation” saying the governing party was ” hypocritical”. –Siphiwe Mchunu