WHILE major strides have been made in the prevention of HIV in the country, men are falling through the cracks, Anova Health Institute’s Dr Diana Mokoena said. Through the Score4Life campaign working with the health department, Mokoena said they were trying to reach men who traditionally did not present at healthcare facilities due to various reasons. The campaign is mostly running in the Johannesburg region’s healthcare facilities of Soweto, Alexandra, Orange Farm, Lenasia ,Roodepoort and pop up stores in several malls. More than 25000 men have been tested through the programme since July last year. Mokoena said the campaign was in support of the 90-90-90 strategy. She said as the teams were working in clinics and hospitals, it became clear that men were not visiting healthcare facilities. “We don’t see a lot of men in the queues. We don’t see a lot of men in the facilities for different reasons. Often they come late when they are already sick and their CD4 count is already low and that sort of thing, so for us it is clear that there must be a reason why they aren’t there and if they are not coming into the clinics we are probably not reaching them,” she said. This as men don’t generally visit healthcare facilities, often citing the lack of male healthcare workers among other reasons Mokoena said while great work was being done in the hospitals and clinics it was clear that men were not being addressed. “Yes we are doing good work in the clinics but it’s clear that there is a group that is not being reached and we know how transmission works and it doesn’t help if we just focus on women and children and not their male partners,” she said. She said at two clinics in Alexandra, a fast-lane concept had been introduced. This is where men are allocated their own area and a male nurse for overall health screenings and not just for HIV. “It’s absolutely something that comes up a lot in our interactions with men in general. Unfortunately in the healthcare space generally in the pool of healthcare workers you find a majority of women nurses, doctors and counsellors among others,” she said. SA has a high rate of infections among young women aged 15 to 24. Research showed that young women were falling prey to the sugar daddy syndrome due to various reasons, including economic dependency among other reasons. Acting HIV and Aids, STI and TB deputy director in the Johannesburg health district Dr Nombuso Madonsela said: “It is estimated that about 60% of men do not know their status and HIV prevalence peaks at 29% in men between the ages of 35 and 39. Knowing one’s status empowers individuals to make the right choices to prolong their lives. Testing is, however, just the first step in the HIV prevention and treatment process.” -LERATO DIALE|leratod@thenewage.co.za