THE city of Joburg is to establish a joint committee with the Department of Home Affairs to address illegal immigration in the city. The city received the department’s official response to their demand to develop a plan to address illegal immigration challenges. Recognising these challenges, the department proposed the establishment of a joint committee between the department and the city. This joint committee will be tasked with developing a plan to address illegal immigration within the city.Executive mayor Herman Mashaba said that in the best interest of the residents and in the interest of good cooperative governance, the city has accepted the department’s proposal. “The city will engage with the department to agree on terms of reference for the joint committee and time frames for completion of the committee’s work. Once the joint committee has finalised its work, I will meet with the Minister of Home Affairs, Ayanda Dlodlo, to consider and approve the plan. I am happy to see that Minister Dlodlo is taking these immigration challenges seriously, unlike her two predecessors. For more than a year I have, on numerous occasions, sought an audience with the department. Sadly those attempts were in vain,” Mashaba said. He said that many people from across the continent and world seek a better life in South Africa and Joburg in particular. “Those who are undocumented immigrants, are forced to live on the fringes of our society with limited protection given to them. From the city’s perspective, illegal immigration compounds serious challenges for the provision of temporary emergency accommodation for residents and other basic services,” he said. Mashaba said it was crucial a comprehensive plan be developed that will start addressing these concerns. “The new joint committee can thus not be allowed to degenerate into another intergovernmental talk shop with few results. As the custodian on immigration matters, I hope the department will show leadership in the matter.” The city is hopeful the commitment shown by the department will bear an effective and lasting solution that will protect the interests of the citizens and law abiding foreign nationals in the city. dikeledir@thenewage.co.za -Dikeledi Molobela  