To cater for infants and children with paediatric surgical conditions a new clinic has been opened at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital. On Sunday, the Gauteng Health, GSK and Surgeons for Little Lives opened a new Paediatric Surgery Outpatient Clinic which provides the first integrated service offering support for families of young patients. Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa who attended the opening said that the clinic will house a parental sleep-over facility, allowing children the opportunity to have family support while admitted as inpatients to the hospital, often for prolonged periods of time. “The old paediatric surgery clinic had needed a complete overhaul. The new facility will go a long way in assisting the department to improve the quality of care delivered to children, their caregivers and families.” Acting CEO of Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital, Dr Sifiso Maseko, indicated that the clinic is a great initiative between the private sector and the public service which shows what can be achieved. “We are thrilled that the new pediatric surgery outpatient clinic will increase our ability to improve our duty of care and the number of patients treated in our department of Paediatric Surgery,” Maseko said. He also stated that the outpatient clinic and parental sleep-over facility will play an important role in improving access to quality healthcare for children, overcoming infrastructural and capacity challenges as well as improving resources for nurses and doctors. Professor Jerome Loveland, Chairman of the Board Surgeons for Little Lives said: “The outpatient department will take our clinical care, training and research to the next level. “By providing support facilities for caregivers and family members we are not only decreasing the anxiety levels for children but alleviating some of the day-to-day workloads of nursing staff who have previously provided motherly duties while patients were unable to be present at the hospital.” -TNA Reporter