MAMELODI Sundowns could find themselves nine points clear at the top of the PSL table heading into the New Year provided they win their match against Cape Town City tomorrow. The Brazilians lead second place Kaizer Chiefs by six points with two games in hand and take on the Citizens at Loftus Versfeld tomorrow. Should they win, the gap will be massive looking at the fact that they will still have a game in hand having played 13. Downs coach Pitso Mosimane knows how important a win would be for their confidence next year. “The lead is good, what is important is what Percy Tau said, we need to win our games in hand and we’ve dealt with one midweek,” Mosimane said after his side thumped Bloemfontein Celtic 4-1 on Saturday. “That was a game in hand, we need to clear those ones and if you clear them with a win, then it is okay. That’s important because those are games in hand that have not been won. “So we got rid of one and we still have two more and they are coming.” With the six points gap now, Sundowns are huge favourite to win the title, but Mosimane insists the title is far from over. “Not yet, let the trophy stay at Milpark for now and when there is a time for anybody to claim it, it will be a time not yet. “But we are slowly going there, we are striving for that. But we are far away guys and we have to be professional at this space. “One step at a time we need to move on. People say Manchester City has won the league, I don’t know. “This is the period in the UK, four matches in nine days lets see what’s going to happen there. “The match we played against Celtic was a fifth one in 12 days.” Thokozani Sekotlong, Tiyani Mabunda, Percy Tau and Themba Zwane scored the goals for Sundowns in their 4-1 victory over Celtic. And what is more pleasing for Mosimane is that his team are finding the back of the net having now scored 23 goals in 13 matches. “The goals will come if you play in a manner that you try to open the position and create a chance to score. “That’s where the goal will come. You can’t expect the goals to come when you play in a manner that you are not trying to create opportunities to score. “We miss a lot of opportunities, but it is part of the game and sometimes you ask yourself yeah they are over. -NEVILLE KHOZA