A SERVICE delivery protest in Joseph Maleletook a sour turn yesterday when protesters clashed with police and resorted to looting shops.The roads were closed and barricaded for most of the day with protesters vowing to continue with protests until they are heard. The community took to the streets to voice their grievances over the lack of electricity, saying that they had been without power for almost 21 years.A 65-year-old woman said she had been living in Diepsloot without electricity and proper housing for more than 20 years. It is painful to see that even after years we are still discussing the same issues. Electricity is a necessity, our children are unable to study at night because they have to use candles which run out sometimes. I have been voting but I don t get anything in return, she said. Joseph Malele, one of the community leaders, said service delivery in the area was very poor and the government was failing to help them. What is painful is that on Sunday someone died in their shack when it caught fire and we failed to help them because there was no water to douse the fire.The issue of electricity affects me so much because we inhale paraffin every day and our kids end up getting sick from the fumes, he said. He said statistics proved that children who study using candles are more likely to fail than those using electricity, which is what they experience daily.Thomas Chauke, a community member, said they had submitted a first memorandum to mayor Herman Mashaba s office but did not get a response. They submitted a third memorandum on June 9 but still nothing was done.He said they did not want Diepsloot to be referred as a reception area but be converted into a township. Regional director Abigail Ndlovu from the mayor s office met with community leaders and promised to hold a meeting with the housing department and Eskom today to map out a process of installing electricity. We have decided with the leadership that we will join hands during this protest. We will meet with housing and Eskom to plan how the process will take place. But people must still apply for electricity. We will request a time line from Eskom because we cannot wait any more.We will brief the community on the outcome, Ndlovu said. Police spokesperson Kay Makhubela said the situation was still tense. People were dispersed from the roads by rubber bullets and stun grenades. There are some police cars that were damaged and a case of public violence was registered. So far we have not arrested anyone. DIKELEDI RAMABOPA news@thenewage.co.za