The ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) has voiced dissatisfaction about media reports alleging that longserving ANC provincial chairperson David Mabuza would be sent to jail if he did not throw his support behind some candidates ahead of the ANC elective conference.ANC provincial secretary Mandla Ndlovu said the PEC learnt about the allegations levelled against Mabuza by unknown sources in a national weekly newspaper.Ndlovu said the claims were regarded as serious not only against Mabuza but the ANC provincial leadership as well.Ndlovu would not disclose the crime that Mabuza would be imprisoned for should he fail to continue backing up certain candidates. The PEC has noted with serious concern a prudently coordinated and calculated attack directed, not only towards comrade Mabuza, but to the ANC in the province as a whole, Ndlovu said. This attack recently manifested itself in an article published by a newspaper in which it was alleged that faceless sources informed (the paper) that Mabuza was under duress to support a particular candidate and if he does not, he will be jailed. This attack creates a perception that the ANC provincial chairperson does not take political decisions informed by his revolutionary conscience but by other interests which include the fear to be imprisoned. He said such information was also tarnishing the integrity of the ANC and misleading the provinces citizens to lose hope in the party. The information also creates an impression that the provincial chairperson has got things to hide from South Africans in general and the people of Mpumalanga in particular. It also creates an impression that branches of the ANC in Mpumalanga have abandoned their responsibility to nominate and elect leaders of their glorious movement and have ceded their right to the leadership. Ndlovu said the party s provincial leadership and branches had trust in Mabuza s capability to lead the party despite allegations levelled against him. As the PEC, we want to put it on record that comrade Mabuza continues to correctly lead the PEC and the branches of the ANC in Mpumalanga guided by his revolutionary conscience and deep love for his movement the ANC, the proncial party secretary said. He has in the recent past displayed this by making a call that nothing supersedes the unity of the ANC and we must all act in a manner that unites the ANC. FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za