THE state employees pension fund of more than R1.6 trillion has never been used to bail out state-owned entities (SOEs). Both the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), which invests on behalf of the fund, flatly denied pensioners funds were used by the national Treasury to fund SOEs.The Treasury announced recently an emergency bailout of R2.2bn to SAA so it could pay back a loan from Standard Chartered Bank. The Treasury said the funds were transferred from the National Revenue Fund (NRF) or the fiscus. This has no connection with the GEPF. Pension funds are safe, the GEPF told The New Age yesterday. The fund invests only in government bonds that are publicly traded. We don t bail out, we invest. The GEPF said a significant portion of SOEs bond-holdings was government guaranteed and investing in SOEs is part of the GEPF s mandate to the PIC. The mandates are based on a detailed asset and liability modelling exercises, the entity said.The pension administrator, the PIC, also stressed that no funds had been used to bail out SOEs. Deon Botha, the head of corporate affairs, said the PIC s investments in SOEs are in the form of bonds. These bonds are publicly auctioned and the PIC is just one investor. It is important to emphasise that bonds issued by SOEs have made returns that are in line with the bond market performance. Investments in bonds and other asset classes are informed by the client s mandate. Moreover, a large portion of bonds issued by SOEs is government guaranteed, Botha said.Botha said assets under PIC management had been growing over the years. The audited figures for the financial year that ended March 2016 show that PIC s assets were valued at R1.8 trillion. Isaac Matshego, Nedbank senior economist, warned that if the Treasury continued to bail out SOEs using NRF funds (taxpayers money) it was heading for trouble. The money is already allocated to expenditure functions according to the budget and continuing to withdraw from it will change the national budget completely. It is not an ideal move. When countries approach the IMF or World Bank for funding, that means they don t have revenue and have to borrow. It is dangerous, Matshego said.bernards@thenewage.co.za-Bernards Sethekge