Cape Town s ailing passenger rail system is an obstacle in the city of Cape Town s revised comprehensive Integrated transport plan to establish an integrated, intermodal and interoperable transport system.The plan outlined the city s strategies and actions over the next five years in pursuing a transport system where commuters spent less time and money on travelling between their homes, work and other destinations.In the past few months the city s Transport and Urban Development Authority has revised the transport plan, updating the document with the latest available transport data and aligning it with policies that have been adopted by the council since 2014. The draft transport plan was available for public comment until September 26. It is impossible to establish an integrated intermodal and interoperable transport system in Cape Town without a fully functional and efficient passenger rail service, mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said. All of us have had first-hand experience of the dire consequences of the steep decline in the passenger rail system. Delays, service interruptions and unreliability have forced hundreds of thousands of commuters to use road-based public transport and private vehicles. Figures released showed there were 2.7 million fewer rail journeys in Cape Town per month in 2016-17 in comparison to 2015-16. The number of passengers boarding the trains on a daily basis had also declined by 43% from 2013 to 2017. The Western Cape Metrorail service requires 88 full sets to operate, but the average availability of train sets has reduced from 82 sets in January 2016 to 72 sets in January this year. Up to 27% of train journeys were running behind schedule as a direct result, leaving commuters frustrated and angry. Passenger rail has been in a state of crisis for nearly a decade due to a lack of investment and maintenance, vandalism and arson. We are eager to support and assist Metrorail in improving operations and safety. I engaged with the Metrorail CEO in 2012 when we proposed a law enforcement joint venture to assist Metrorail with crime and vandalism on the rail system, Herron said.He said passenger rail was the backbone of the city s public transport system and was key to the city s transit-orientated development strategic framework that was being implemented to transform Cape Town s spatial form. The point is, the city cannot sit back and wait for the national government to act. We are working on solutions, including an investigation into the feasibility of light rail. We will keep the public informed on our progress and will make an announcement as soon as we have more information available, Herron said.VINCENT CRUYWAGENvincentc@thenewage.co.za