Comfort Dental Care in Bethlehem, Free State, is promoting the importance of dental care among school children in the province.Working closely with dentist Dr Ratsatsi Frederick Tadi, the organisation reached an agreement with Colgate to distribute toothpaste and brushes across schools in Bethlehem after assessing their teeth and realising there was a great need for dental care in children. So far 1 974 toothbrushes and tooth paste have been issued in schools and cr ches. Also, 100 packs consisting of activity booklets and posters have been given to teachers, the organisation said.The campaign aims to rise at raising awareness about oral health education and the prevention of oral health diseases affecting children and adults.Some of the schools that where visited include Bohlokong Primary school, Rehopotswe Public School, as well as the Anchor and Jabulani day care centres.The South African Dental Association revealed 60-90% of school children worldwide haddental cavities and also highlighted that curative dental care was a significant economic burden for many high-income countries, where 5-10% of public health expenditure went to oral health.Furthermore, 40-50% of people who are HIV-positive have oral fungal, bacterial or viral infections, which often occur early in the course of HIV infection. Dental cavities can be prevented by a low level of fluoride constantly maintained in the oral cavity. Fluoride can be obtained from fluoridated drinking water, salt, milk, mouth rinse or toothpaste, as well as from professionally-applied fluorides.Long-term exposure to an optimal level of fluoride results in fewer cavities in both children and adults, the association said.It also said daily oral care should include brushing and flossing and regular visits to the dentist.The South African Dental Association also has some tips for greater healthcare including that it is preferable to select a soft or extra soft bristle toothbrush to prevent the risk of harming the gums, to brush thoroughly at least twice a day and especially before going to bed.Also, brushing teeth for at least two minutes at a time to ensure that all teeth are reached and food debris is removed is advisable, although too much brushing can damage gums.The organisation advised children to not apply too much pressure to the head of the toothbrush when brushing and to replace toothbrushes at least every three months. If toothbrush bristles are flaring it is time to replace the toothbrush and a possible indication that you are brushing too hard. Brushing the tongue removes bacteria in the oral cavity and also, floss at least once a day. Other tips include: Follow the curves of the teeth when flossing. Do not snap floss onto the gums when cleaning between teeth. Use toothpaste or dental care products which contain fluoride. Toothpastes have ingredients to assist with the prevention of decay, plaque and tartar control, gum care and sensitivity. Have a balanced diet. Limit snacks. Visit the dental team regularly if experiencing pain or bad breath. Discuss with your dentist fluoride supplement requirements for children under the age of 12 years.provinces@thenewage.co.za