Pauline Williams said the department s core function was creating a province where citizens were safe and had access to reliable public transport.She said the safety of people was not merely a policing issue but a human rights issue, including the need to protect vulnerable women, children and the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex people, in a world full of interpersonal conflict. We are reminded constantly that our targets are not achievable without recognising the importance of cooperation, dialogue and integration. The centrality that remains supreme is the dynamic connection of working relationships with all our stakeholders and our communities, Williams said.Crimes affecting people in the province were mostly related to social issues, with the tragic reality that alcohol and drug abuse rendered the people unproductive. Ultimately they resort to crime and many of our young drivers continue to be reckless and in the end these systematically rob our youth of the opportunity to dream, Williams said.The department has granted bursaries to external applicants for the first time to further their studies in various fields including transport economics, town planning and road design. The department needs to do more to attract young people to this area of study, which is lacking in the province. An amount of R679000 was set aside for both internal and external bursaries with the intention to keep it moving forward while this gap is filled by interns and learnerships, the department said.Williams said a detailed skills audit had been finalised and its recommendations were being considered by the Executive Authority. A way forward will be outlined in the near future after consultation with all stakeholders so that the department can change the pace of implementing its mandate. Our task is as urgent and it is with this in mind that we are presenting our policy statement with due regard for the challenges we need to address towards the realisation of the Freedom Charter s goals as we celebrate the 61 years of its development and adoption, Williams said.The department said their recently established Gender Desk continued with superb work in ensuring equality and care, both internally and for the external environment. We had several outreach campaigns and a focus on commemorative days to promote the involvement of our employees in matters of national pride and identity. This unit will also be resourced and strengthened so that the issues facing youth and women can be elevated. Meanwhile, Community Policing Forums (CPFs) are mandated to facilitate critical community-police relations within a specific police precinct and serves as the mouthpiece of the community to the police on matters of protection and safety. Resourcing and funding CPFs remains a challenge and more support is required for their functionality, but urgent intervention is needed from the government, stakeholders, SAPS and the department to ensure their sustainable operations as they prepare for cluster elections and ultimately the provincial election of the new board. CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za