A 41-year-old man is expected to appear in the Butterworth Magistrate s Court today for the murder of his 23-year-old girlfriend.The woman was shot and left for dead in Manqulo Village near Kei Bridge, Butterworth. Her body was found by a passer-by the next morning on Wednesday.Police spokesperson Capt Jackson Manatha said the man was arrested in Mqanduli on Friday. The firearm used in the murder was also recovered. This is another shocking and senseless case where a defenceless woman was murdered, he said.Butterworth cluster commander, Brig Trevor Mey called on police to go back to basics to ensure the safety of women and children, which he said was a top priority for the Eastern Cape. The continuous investigation of such cases is in line with our back to basics policing approach, which requires efficient and responsive investigation of crime, utilising all resources at our disposal to ensure offenders are brought to book to face the consequences of their ruthless deeds. The woman was identified as Zusiphe Mki.Meanwhile, also in Butterworth, 20-year-old Sizwe Mafika was sentenced to eight years in prison for raping a 31-year-old woman. Police spokesperson Capt Jackson Manatha said the rape happened while Mafika and the victim were on their way to a tavern together in May last year in Mgomanzi Village. Mafika promised to buy liquor for the victim. As they were walking to the tavern, the accused threatened the victim with a knife and accosted her, then overpowered the victim and raped her, he said. Mafika was traced and arrested by Butterworth police. The eight-year sentence handed to the accused is welcomed by the Eastern Cape police and we trust the sentence will serve as a deterrent to criminals preying on women who are not in a position to defend themselves, Manatha said.In another case, former Nelson Mandela Bay municipality spokesperson Roland Aloysius Williams, 46, appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court last week for alleged fraud.Williams is accused of submitting a fraudulent car insurance claim to a Port Elizabeth company, Hawks spokesperson Anelisa Feni said. He said he was involved in a car accident in Motherwell and the insurance company paid out a substantial amount of money, she said. The claim was reported to the Hawks Serious Commercial Crime Unit, leading to Williams arrest on Thursday. William was granted R2000 bail.SIYA MITIprovinces@thenewage.co.za