Researchers from the Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) will soon be able to take advantage of state of the art equipment to conduct research now that the university has acquired a part of the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC) building on Ridge Road in Durban.MUT spokesperson Bheki Hlophe said the building, which will house the university s top researchers in multi- disciplinary fields, is expected to assist MUT in its quest to become a major producer of green energy and the creation of a healthy environment. One of the university s aspirations is to contribute to the limitation of the impact of green houses, Hlophe said.Prof Zodwa Dlamini, deputy vice-chancellor for research, innovation and engagement at the university, said the building would host the MUT Multidisciplinary Research Institute (M-MRI). When I joined MUT, I realised that the institution did not have top-notch equipment, which should enable MUT research and innovation to move to another level. My first preoccupation was to knock on the relevant doors that could take this great ambition forward. Fortunately for me, I had good networks with the SAMRC and our proposal was received favourably. I am grateful to the MUT council for enabling this ambition to be fulfilled, Dlamini said.Prof Senzo Malinga, the director of the university s centre for the development of green technology, said the building, among others, would be used as an electronics testing, measurement and verification centre. There are many benefits that will accrue out of this acquisition. Presently, all electronic equipment has to be sent overseas for testing. This takes time. Now, MUT will be able to do the testing within the centre. This will save us a lot of time. The university will be able to generate a third stream income as the private sector will bring their electronic equipment for testing and other related checking as required by law, Malinga said. This is going to be the first such centre in the province. It will assist the country s competitiveness in electronics and energy management. There are relatively few research centres at universities in the country, so the presence of a research institute at MUT will offer a number of benefits to researchers. Research conducted by the US National Library of Medicine in the National Institute of Health said research centres could aid in faculty recruitment and retention, facilitate collaboration in research, secure research resources, offer a sense of community and promote continued learning, afford organisational flexibility, focus on societal problems and raise funds.Despite their many benefits, the institute found that centres could also create tension and present management challenges. Centres can compete with departments over resources and complicate faculty recruitment, the US research said.LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za