A group of ANC stalwarts and veterans have raised the stakes in their demand for the party to convene a stand-alone national consultative conference by issuing an ultimatum that it be held no later than October.The stalwarts and veterans are signatories to the For the Sake of our Future document and said President Jacob Zuma, in a pre-policy conference discussion with the stalwarts, said the party would make a concession that a consultative conference could be convened in-between the ANC s policy and elective conference. We nevertheless noted the suggestion by our president at one of our pre-policy conference discussions that the national consultative conference could still be held after the policy conference and prior to the elective conference in December. In our hope for further discussions with the leadership of the ANC, we will motivate for that suggestion by the president to be embraced, with a target date of not later than the end of October. We believe this would be acceptable to all those in the ANC and within the alliance who genuinely seek to turn the ANC s trajectory away from this path of self-destruction. On Friday at the opening of the ANC s national policy conference in Johannesburg, Zuma openly rubbished the bonafides of the stalwarts.ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe also said the veterans decision to boycott the conference was a lost opportunity.However, the stalwarts fired back saying they were perplexed by the bizarre and dishonest statements attributed to Zuma. They also said Mantashe s diagnostic report delivered at the ANC s policy indaba lacked in substance . Notwithstanding some of the topics discussed at the conference such as the strategy and tactics, standard fare at any ANC conference, the burning issues which led the organisation to its current demise could not be honestly confronted. In some crucial respects, specifically, project state capture. Perhaps this is an unavoidable consequence of the structure of any policy conference and a poor substitute for a real national consultative conference. The group of veterans reiterated why they believed a national consultative conference would be able to arrest the crisis in the ANC. It is simply not possible to hold a consultative conference if there has not been a careful and honest evaluation of our present situation within our movement of all that is wrong in our country and government. Otherwise we will continue to have shallow, populist sloganeering, which might slip easily off the tongue but fools no one, especially our electorate. Regrettably, we have to accept that there are those who inanely believe that a lie repeated often enough becomes the truth and is a solution to the unacceptable state of our country. It is necessary to constantly remind those who take the path of simple slogans that this is not and has never been the language of the ANC, but the language of populist and imported public relations, the stalwarts said.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa was not available for comment.news@thenewage.co.za