An unemployed man who narrowly escaped death when his two roomed mud house collapsed almost three months ago during a rainstorm said he was still far away from enjoying the fruits of democracy.Jabulani Mlambo, 59, from Section G in Tweefontein near KwaMhlanga, could not stop crying when he narrated the unfair treatment he allegedly received from the local municipality.The New Age found him standing in front of his one-roomed rusty shack in which he is living with his unemployed wife, Maid Mlambo, 47.Mlambo said he had applied for an RDP house at the Thembisile Hani municipality in 2009 and his several attempts to get a response about the application had drawn a blank.He said the only response he always got was to be patient due to the number of applicants on the list because the previous administration failed him. Imagine an older person being ignored to be provided with an RDP house since 2009. I have already lost hope because the municipality keeps on saying I have to be patient because I am not the only person on the list. But I thank God because we managed to survive when the mud house was destroyed by rain while we were asleep. The municipality s plan is to wait for us to die and later convey condolences while they failed to provide us with a house. God is with us, Mlambo said. I think my application was not successful because I am now older. But I am definitely sure that if it was a younger person, they would have been given him a house already. The disgruntled man survives by repairing shoes and selling vegetables from his backyard. I have no choice but to wait until next year when I turn 60 and qualify for a pension grant. My life will be better, although the grant is not meant to build a house, Mlambo said.Thembisile Hani local municipality spokesperson Simphiwe Mashiyane said Mlambo needed to consult with the provincial human settlements department about his application process. It is not the municipality s responsibility to construct RDP houses. This is done by the human settlements department. The municipality is just responsible for collecting data for deserving people and forwarding it to the department, Mashiyane said.Human settlements provincial spokesperson Freddy Ngobe said they were not aware of Mlambo s plight and they would investigate the matter. We always emphasise that a priority of RDP houses should be given to deserving applicants such as the elderly, child-headed households and those living with disabilities, Ngobe said. A person who applied for an RDP house and gets no response needs to go to the municipality to find out about the application before the department also investigates. francen@thenewage.co.za