After more than a decade of acting as a voice for the voiceless, the Grace Help Centre is expanding its services as a safe haven for orphans and other vulnerable groups.The centre is located in Mooinooi, between Brits and Rustenburg and has already taken in a considerable number of children under its care.Founded by Rina van der Berg 18 years ago, Grace Help Centre seeks to give a second chance to those neglected or forced into circumstances where they do not have anyone to turn to.Social pressure and other factors that are plaguing society have forced many children and even adults to look for places where they can regain their sense of being. As a result, pressure mounts on caregivers and facilities like Grace Help Centre get over-stretched in terms of their capacities.For this reason, Van der Berg said there was need for well-wishers to come on board and help her expand and grow the facility so that it accommodated more people. One has only to look at the media on a daily basis to see the dramatic rise in gender-based violence.Equally shocking are the statistics that show the high mortality rate of newborn infants who do not live past six days of life. The sad reality of both of these is the fact that the underlying cause is gender-based violence. Women feel trapped by their partners, lost in the negative self-talk of he hurts me because he loves me or I can never leave him because where would I go with my child or now that I am pregnant no one will care for me and my unborn child, Rina said.She said Grace Help Centre that provides accommodation and rehabilitation for abused women and children, crisis pregnancies, human trafficking victims and vulnerable children on their own. We operate as a non-profit organisation registered with the department of social development.The care centre has been in existence for 18 years, it works closely with child welfare and local schools, the department of education and related welfare organisations. Ours is the only centre in the province that provides a Facebook Page: Grace Help Centre, that enables women to connect with a qualified counsellor who is available at the click of a button to discuss their fears and discuss their exit plan options. As well as a WhatsApp contact to discuss their fears, concerns and requests for counselling and support, she said.At the moment, Grace Help Centre can accommodate 50 people with each beneficiary receiving toiletries, clothing, transport, counselling, food, shelter, pre- and post-abortion counselling, HIV-Aids counselling, teenage pregnancy, the legal rights of women, medical services, rape counselling, trauma counselling and payment for schooling free of charge for however long these victims remain in our care. The centre s beneficiaries are all black people from previously disadvantaged communities. We provide for children from newborns to teenagers, education is provided for the children at the local pre-schools and primary schools in the area. The progress of each beneficiary is monitored by two qualified social workers, Van der Berg said.The staff at the facility are predominantly black and there are some who volunteer their services to keep standards high.Centre director said the need to expand comes as a result of the overwhelming number of people who need love and care. We are building to enlarge our property to accommodate 50 more children, our main focus being on 25 newborns and toddlers. We are the only registered care centre in the province that provides care specifically for newborns through to 18 years and for woman and their children that provides a holistic healing environment for each woman and child to grow and thrive, learn to stand on their feet again to live an independent life, she said.So far, two companies have come on board to support the centre s expansion cause.They are PPC Cement Rustenburg and Cemblocks. The two are supporting the construction project for the envisaged new home of hope and new beginnings for 50 more children. Ideally, we are looking for sponsors who can provide 30 mattresses with matching linen and pillows, a kitchen makeover with kitchen essentials such as microwaves and kettles and crockery and cutlery. We need carpets and scatter rugs, baby essentials such as camping cots and training potties, baby formula and baby products. We also welcome financial support to wrap up the building project. All donations will be thanked for in writing and a Section 18 a tax certificate can be issued for the value of the donation, she said.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za