Mzwalhe Khacela could have used his tertiary qualification to find a high-paying job but instead he chose to dedicate his time and skills to helping disabled people in his community.Inspired by one of the most important people in his life, his grandfather, 23-year-old Khacela joined the Free State Performing Arts and Transport for People with Disabilities organisation where he teaches drama, music, poetry and dance to youths with disabilities. I had a grandfather who was disabled, I had to take care of him because no one was interested in helping him. I realised then that I have love and patience for these community members, Khacela said. When I got to Bloemfontein I realised that in most cases disabled people were not being taken care of in a proper manner. I conducted research on what I could do to help, especially those in arts, and that s how I came across Free State Performing Arts. Khacela grew up in Van Stadensrus in the southern Free State. He has a diploma in human resources management from Ikhala College in Aliwal North, Eastern Cape. He said the reason he joined the NGO was his love for the arts and disabled people. I want to ensure that we remove disabled people from the streets as beggars and instead develop and empower them to do something unique, Khachela said.He said he wanted to help disabled people build a disability centre in Bloemfontein that had a recording studio and equipment that could be used by members with unique needs. I want disabled people to be creative and use their own ideas and talents to survive and not depend on government grants, Khacela said. I also work with schools for the disabled. The first time I went to a school I was surprised to learn that they do a lot of things that people don t know about. I see it as my duty to market and display their talents on a bigger platform. Last year we launched a campaign called Put Yourself In My Shoes. We invited the likes of Steve Kekana and Babsie Mlangeni to say we want disabled people to be given the opportunities to participate in government programmes and not to be sidelined, Khachela said.He is also a member of a religious rap group called Black and Blessed (B&amp;B) and a radio presenter at Central University of Technology FM. His show, Monate O Tswella Pele, is on air from 2-6am every Saturday and Sunday.Having been raised by his grandparents after the deaths of both his parents, he says that experience taught him to care more about other people and inspired him to become a stand-up comedian and a community activist.-GRACE BOLOWANA