Cultivation and possession of dagga in your home or backyard remains an offence until the legislation allows it.This was the message at the recent Eden cluster anti-drug seminar in George at the weekend.The seminar comes after judgment was made in the Western Cape High Court in March regarding the cultivation, possession and consumption of dagga in a private dwelling for personal use.During the seminar attended by local residents, police officers and members of the community policing forum, guests listened attentively as the Southern Cape police spokesperson Malcolm Pojie explained the offences related to possession or planting of dagga.Pojie said it had come to the attention of the police that communities and dagga users might have the perception that the possession and consumption was deemed to be legal when used or cultivated in a private home. However, this is not the case. He said legislation did not allow the use, possession and planting of the tree. It remains an offence until legislation allows it. We have to clarify this as our members have recently encountered various occasions where drug users claim that they are entitled to consume dagga at will as long as it is done in the privacy or vicinity of their homes. This assumption and practice must stop immediately as offenders will be brought to court for prosecution and conviction, Pojie said.The declaration to legalise dagga has been suspended for a period of 24 months from the date of judgment to correct the defects as set out in the judgment.The judgment must first be considered and approved by the Constitutional Court and then be aligned with legislation for declaration in the Government Gazette before it can be enforced.This means the current legislation prohibits the possession, purchase, cultivation of dagga remains and that police would enforce the current and relevant legislation.Rastafarian Elfi Burns said: The legislation, if passed, will save our community from daily police harassment. Ganja is an integral part of our religion and there is no way we can be without it. We use the holy herb for many things including cleansing and during worshiping periods. South Africa is one of a few countries in the world that can produce quality dagga plants. To legalise dagga would make life much easier for the Rasta community. We have long been waiting for the legalisation of marijuana to stop harrassment by authorities, Burns said.MPUMI KIVAprovinces@thenewage.co.za