Four chefs did Matjhabeng local municipality proud when they brought home awards after competing in the Master Caterers Challenge 2017, a cooking competition organised by the International Labour Organisation and the Department of Tourism.Cornell William Miti said the competition was intense. It was the opportunity of a lifetime. We were fired up with enthusiasm and we told ourselves that we were going there to win awards. We entered the competition with spirit and faith and as a result we brought home the awards, Miti said. The competition took place over two months. We were classified into three categories youth, professional chefs and non-professional chefs. There were 27 contestants. I was placed in the professional chef category because I graduated from HTA School of Culinary Art in Randburg with a diploma in food preparation and culinary art. I won third prize in the yeast category, Miti said.Miti said the competition was interesting, hectic and sometimes emotional. The television cameras were on us while we were competing. The presenters would ask us questions while we cooked, like why we used the ingredients we did, so you can imagine how challenging that was. In a way, we felt like TV stars. We lived up to our promise and came back home with five awards, he said.He said the chefs learnt a lot during the competition. Bidvest was one of the sponsors and provided us with the kitchen, necessary equipment and taught us about different ingredients, Miti said. We had further training at the Central University of Technology Hotel School where we learnt about nutrition and Nedbank taught us about financial administration, Miti said.Rethabile Gladys Maimane from Golden Goose Catering and Cake Decorating won R10000 from Baking and Food Technology Incubators (Bicsa) and a selection of products from Bidvest.Lucy Vuyelwa Matsheke from Vuyi s Events and Catering Services took first prize in the yeast category, taking home R10000 from Bicsa and a selection of products courtesy of Bidvest.Matela Sheshe from Dream Events and Catering Services won first prize in the youth category and took home a mobile kitchen worth R220000, R2000 cash from Bicsa and a selection of products sponsored by Bidvest.Cornell William Miti from Dawncornell Associates won R3000.GRACE BOLOWANAprovinces@thenewage.co.za