IN A world where computing power and computer skills are becoming ever more important, South Africa continues to punch above its weight. Students from the University of the Western Cape (UWC) led Team South Africa to garner the second prize in the prestigious International Supercomputing Competition in Frankfurt, Germany this month. Students from both the University of the Western Cape and Stellenbosch University (SU) proved to be great competitors when they claimed one of the top three spots.The South African team was selected in December at the annual Centre for High Power Computing South African Student Cluster Challenge. Winners, Mishka Mohamed, Kyle Jordaan, Tyrone de Ruiters and Liam Doult, who formed UWC s Team No Windows and SU s Phillip Goosen and Lydia de Lange, went to Germany to build a small cluster of their design on the exhibition floor and race to demonstrate the greatest performance across a series of benchmarks and applications.The competition took place over three days of intense effort by 12 international teams. The team members were honoured guests of the Minister of Science and Technology, Naledi Pandor, at the Department of Science and Technology s budget vote in Parliament this year where she wished them well for the international competition. Team No Windows was guided in their endeavours in the South African part of the competition by their staff mentor, the South African National Bioinformatics Institute s Peter van Heusden and their student mentor, Eugene de Beste who was part of the winning team for the ISC for 2015.De Beste s former ISC teammate, joined him to provide assistance and guidance at the international event. Sharing their excitement Mishka Mohamed, who is completing her third-year BSc at UWC, said: I still remember playing on my dad s old DOS computer and wondering how it worked, so I ve always loved computers. My interests shifted to the Supercomputing Competition as soon as I was presented with the opportunity to learn more about creating a super computer, Mohamed said. Sharing the sentiment of loving anything computer related, Bellville-based UWC BSc computer science student Kyle Jordaan, said: I am interested in high-performance computing because I want to gain experience through these events. I also love all things computer related, he said. The cluster competition is designed to give undergraduate students exposure to the high power performance computing industry, an industry that s increasingly crucial to researchers in fields as disparate as astrophysics, molecular biology and even history, where there are complicated operations to perform on often massive data sets. Born and raised in Cape Town, fellow BSc Computer Science student Tyrone de Ruiters, found the competition a valuable experience. I enjoy breaking down new problems and learning new skills, so I enjoyed the competition. Liam Doult from Durbanville who is studying for his BSc computer science degree, was grateful both for the victory and the opportunity to hone his skills.Team South Africa has excelled at the ISC. Since the competition began, Team SA has won the international competition three times, with UWC again leading the team in one of those victories, and taking second position once. The international competition is organised by the international High Performance Computing Advisory Council.nadinef@thenewage.co.za