The office of Gauteng economic development MEC Lebogang Maile has urged employees of Gauteng Enterprise Propeller (GEP) not to resort to strike action as his office is open to engagements regarding their allegations about widespread maladministration and corruption in the entity.This was after GEP employees handed a memorandum to the office of GEP CEO Leah Manenzhe, Maile and the Gauteng legislature on Tuesday with allegations of widespread corruption in the entity.GEP is one of the Gauteng s provincial government s agencies tasked with growing small and medium enterprises and promote entrepreneurship development in the province. We have accepted the memorandum, we are looking at issues and time we will respond at the right time, MEC Maile s spokesperson Castro Ngobese said. Strike action should be the last resort because our doors are always open for engagement. We are not trying to deny them from raising issues, there is a process under way, Ngobese said.GEP representative, Sihleka Thabang said employees have raised various issues of maladministration and misgovernance of the entity since November last year. The GEP executive unsurprisingly defended their actions and matters were then escalated by the union to the GEP board which proved to be complicit and abdicated their governance responsibilities, Thabang said. The MEC has been in the media saying he will institute forensic investigations to deal with corruption in the agency. These are the same claims which he made to the media two years back and till today we are not aware of any reports save for two employees who were made scapegoats and who have been on paid special leave for two years now with no disciplinary action against them. The same modus operandi is now applied to cover up the real corruption which is taking place at higher levels, he said.He was referring to a planned media briefing by Maile s office in June about his plans to combat corruption which was cancelled. Thabang said the union had identified projects where millions of rands have been unaccounted for. GEP employees are working their socks off but under a strenuous environment, which is designed to benefit a few connected individuals and frustrate hard-working and principled employees. When the top three were seconded to act in the vacant positions of CEO, CFO and chief operating officer, one of the priorities was that of amending the acting policy so that they could be paid more despite employees requesting improved salaries and benefits. The acting general manager of support and administration has been in the acting position for two years despite policy provisions for the rotation of employees. There exists serious lapses of policy implementation at the top which are intentional. There are no incentives in place to enhance and reward performance. Staff morale is at rock bottom, Thabang said.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za