The family of the dead Eskom employee who died in mysterious circumstances after going missing for nearly two weeks, are urgently demanding answer from the power utility why it failed to keep them abreast of developments. This follows unexplained missing of their daughter, Thembisile Yende, 30, who went missing on May 18. The family complained bitterly about the fact that the Eskom management had not had any communication with them since her disappearance two week ago and the macabre discovery in her office. Yende s family opened a missing person case when they learnt that her car was parked in the company s premises, but that she had not made it to her work station. The family was today supported by community members who picketed outside the Eskom&#8217;s Pieterboth substation, challenging management to provide reasons for its sloppiness in keeping it abreast of development since the day when Yende went missing. Two weeks ago, Yende reportedly went missing at her work station although her car had been seen parked at the company s parking lot. The question that had been raised at the time was why the company did not begin with its investigations at that point. In an interview with ANN7 today, family spokesperson Mboneni Yende, who was part of the peace march at the company s premises, said it did not make sense, and seemed odd, that the company could not account for her presence when in fact it should have been clear that she ought to be in the premises if her car was parked in parking lot. He said the fact that her car was parked in the parking bay, and that she had not made it to her work station, should have raised alarm bells, and therefore prompted management to investigate this strange state of affairs . He said the fact that her sister s body was only found dead locked inside her office on Monday, did not make sense. We decided to come here again since we haven t heard any proper communication from Eskom. The only communication we have had is the one that was provided by the media, Yende said, adding that this is not a march but rather a peaceful picketing to show our desire to find answers . Why Thembi was not found on May 18 when police came with their dog unit and is only found on May 29 is a mystery. If the management claim that they saw her (corpse) in the morning of May 29. We demand to have a look at that footage, he said. The family has not been able to identify the body as postmorterm procedures are underway, police spokesman Kay Makhubele said, also disclosing that an inquest docket had been opened. TNA Reporter