IF THERE is one team proving that “it is one thing to get to the top, but it is another to stay there”, then Bidvest Wits is that team. Their’s might have not been a Leicester City story as they have been coming close to winning the PSL for seasons, but their form is just too similar to that of the former English champions. Life as the PSL reigning champions is proving difficult to handle for Gavin Hunt and his side and unlike champions who are held accountable, with Wits it is as if the defending champions are below par. Take Chelsea, for example. Even with a coach, Antonio Conte, who guided them to the title last season, they are under severe pressure to perform every week despite sitting in a respectable fourth position on the EPL table. Mamelodi Sundowns, the former PSL winners, are 10th and their coach is also feeling the pressure of fans who want more, but Wits are not even subjected to anything like that. As things stand, the Clever Boys are third from the bottom of the log with eight points from eight games. That makes it a point a game since the season started. But it is more technical than that, as Hunt’s men have won just twice, losing four matches and drawing twice. Their second win of the season came at the weekend against Baroka FC, with Vincent Pule scoring a solitary goal to ease things for Wits. This is the same Wits that brought in quality players in the transfer window, with the likes of Steven Pienaar, Daylon Claasen, Kobamelo Kodisang, Slavko Damjanovic and Amr Gamal joining. So severe is the pressure on Hunt that he is not even thinking of defending the title but just dragging Wits out of a position that is not fitting for any defending league champion. “It’s been a disappointing season (for us), but we have played only eight games, there’s a long way to go. It’s easier to defend it than to try and win it. But we are not doing a very good job,” Hunt said. “We aren’t even thinking about winning the league (at this stage). We are just trying to get some points, get some wins and move up the table. “We’re third from bottom. We need to get ourselves up the league, get a lot more confidence in the club and get more players back from injury. “We have the Champions League that we will also play next year. We are looking forward to that. “But to win the league, generally, the second time I won it, it was easier. It’s hard now. You have Baroka, Cape Town City and Golden Arrows at the top. You’d never think that would happen.” Wits will have a break from league stresses this week to host their hoodoo team Free State in the Telkom Knockout on Saturday night. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za