THE Port Elizabeth High Court sentenced a serial rapist to 13 life terms and an additional 228 years imprisonment last week. The crowded court erupted into shouts of “justice served” as Mzikayise Mkavu, 27, was sentenced. Mkavu was convicted after pleading guilty to 36 counts including 17 rape charges, eight of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, one attempted murder, two assaults, three attempted robberies, and five of robbery with aggravating circumstances. There were 14 complainants in the matter, with nine rape survivors who testified at the trial. The courtroom was packed and all the women who were raped by Mkavu attended proceedings to watch their attacker being sent to jail. The charges against him dated to incidents in Kwanobuhle near Uitenhage between July 2008 and January last year when Mkavu targeted and tormented a string of women in the Eastern Cape township. Judge Mandela Makaula handing down the sentence said the pain and anguish of all Mkavu’s victims was clear during testimony. Makaula said the culprit usually targeted his victims late at night when they were alone. Many of the victims did not know the identity of their rapist until his arrest last year. Some of the women bore scars on their faces after Mkavu violently assaulted them with bottlenecks. “The court wants to send a clear message to perpetrators that we condemn violence against women. “They have a right to move freely, go shopping, go to work and come back home safely,” Makaula said. Mkavu’s DNA was positively linked to the rape incidents before court. Families of the victims, the community and the media filled the court to capacity and tears were rolling down people’s faces. Elderly women were shouting “Justice served, God is good”. Nine of his victims were called to testify in aggravation of his sentence, giving harrowing accounts of how they were assaulted, robbed, stabbed and raped and how their lives had been irrevocably affected by the incidents. One of the victims, 26, with a visible scar on her forehead, told the court how she was stabbed in the face, how her eye came loose from its socket and how she held it in her hand while Mkavu proceeded to rape her in June 2012. Her eye was later surgically replaced. Another victim, 29, shared that she has attempted suicide three times after being attacked by Mkavu in February 2014 and can still smell Mkavu’s body odour from the day of the offence. Another lost an eye after Mkavu raped her and stabbed her in the face in December 2012. She has been the victim of teasing due to her facial wounds. Last week defence advocate Jodene Coertzen said there were no witnesses in mitigation of sentence and had little to offer in the way of compelling circumstances for the judge to deviate from the prescribed minimum sentence. At the end of her argument, she broke down crying and said the accused deserved whatever sentence the judge handed down. LONDEKA DLAMINI  provinces@thenewage.co.za  