CABINET has called on all communities to work together to protect children from any form of danger and abuse. Addressing a media briefing yesterday following a Cabinet meeting, Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi said Cabinet encouraged everyone living in the country to partner with the SAPS in an effort to keep communities safe. “Cabinet has expressed concern following disturbing reports of crimes against children, the most recent being the alleged sexual assault of more than 80 pupils at AB Xuma Primary School in Orlando, Soweto, by a scholar patrol guard,” Kubayi said. “The provincial department is commended for the prompt response by removing, with immediate effect, the senior management of the school, bringing on board social workers and instituting an investigation by an independent body,” she said. At least 87 pupils at the school reported that they had been sexually assaulted by a scholar patroller. The 57-year-old man’s services were terminated with immediate effect and an investigation into his appointment has been launched. The school principal and the entire senior management of the school has since been removed. Following this week’s mass demonstration led by the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu), Cabinet expressed confidence that the end-of-year school examinations will proceed without interruption. Sadtu handed over a memorandum to Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga, who has committed to resolving issues of concern as speedily as possibly. “It is important that all stakeholders work together to create a conducive environment to better enable pupils to focus on learning and their examinations,” Kubayi said. Cabinet has condemned the attack on six SAPS members in Vanderbijlpark, Gauteng, by members of the community last week. “The law enforcement agencies are mandated to protect society from any act of criminality. “Therefore, no amount of anger can justify anyone attacking the law enforcement agencies,” she said. Cabinet has urged members of that community to work with the police to apprehend criminal elements and help make South Africa safer for all. refilwem@thenewage.co.za -Refilwe Magashule