ZIMBABWEAN President Robert Mugabe yesterday appeared conciliatory during his meeting with President Jacob Zuma despite the recent row over his views on former president Nelson Mandela – and the controversial decision to grant his wife, Grace Mugabe, diplomatic immunity. Mugabe, in SA on an official visit, was all smiles during the second session of the South Africa-Zimbabwe binational commission in Pretoria yesterday. Mugabe spared no effort in wishing the ANC well in its upcoming national elective conference in December. “We wish the ANC every success at the congress, so that it can continue into the future renewed and strengthened.” Mugabe said he was pleased about the outcome of yesterday’s meeting. “This strategic partnership is an instrument for achieving the profound transformation of our countries’ economies, so let us join hands,” he said. Mugabe’s comments were in sharp contrast to earlier comments on how the ANC government had fared since taking office in 1994. Mugabe earlier this year slammed the late Nelson Mandela for making too many concessions during South Africa’s negotiated settlement with Pretoria. “I asked one of the ANC ministers ‘how come whites have been left with so much power?’ and he said it was ‘because of your friend Mandela, he is the one who made mistakes,’” he said. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe took offence to Mugabe’s comments at the time. In a press briefing at Luthuli House, Mantashe lodged a complaint with his Zanu PF counterpart over Mugabe’s comments. “Your president is all over Madiba, but the reality is that you have destroyed the economy in your country,” he said. In another related development, Mugabe’s wife has been noticeably absent during Mugabe’s visit. She was granted diplomatic immunity after allegedly assaulting Johannesburg model Gabriella Engels. While International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane described the process of granting Mugabe immunity from prosecution a “painful exercise”, AfriForum has vowed to fight tooth and nail to have her answer to the allegations levelled against her in court. At the meeting yesterday, Zuma stressed the importance of strengthened economic relations between the two countries. “The diversification of our economies and industrialisation will ultimately put the region on the right footpath as the global economy continues to play its own role,” he said. Bonolo Selebano bonolos@thenewage.co.za