THE national Department of Higher Education and Training has warned prospective students and parents of what it has called a bogus institution called Unlock Development Centre and Logos University operating in Pretoria. The department said the institution was operating illegally and fraudulently. “Earlier investigations by the department revealed that Unlock Development Centre issued degrees on behalf of and in conjunction with unregistered Calvary University. “Soon after, Unlock Development Centre ended its agreement with Calvary University only to enter into an agreement with bogus US-based Logos University,” department spokesperson Madikwe Mabotha said. She said according to the South African Qualifications Authority (Saqa), the Logos University was not listed with the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) or the US Department of Education. Therefore Saqa does not recognise its qualifications. Mabotha said it is also emerged that Calvary University has issued and continues to issue “university degrees” to unsuspecting students. “The department’s investigations also revealed that Calvary University is an online global scam operated by a church-based syndicate from Sinoville in Pretoria North. Most of the members appear to be respectable members in the church and the local community,” she said. Mabotha said the department had filed a case with the law enforcement authorities against both Unlock Development Centre and Calvary University. “The case is still under investigation at the Pretoria North police station.” The department issued a warning to students and advised them to contact the SAPS and department. Students were also urged to first verify information with the DHET to verify the legality of any programme offered by the institution of their choice before enrolling in order to avoid falling prey to illegal operations. Earlier in July, the department also investigated the owners of a suspected fraudulent international university on allegations of operating an illegal private institution in central Pretoria. This was after several complaints from prospective students and the public regarding the suspected bogus institution which was operating under the name of Shepherd Bushiri University. The institution was located at the Old Mutual Building, between Francis Baard and Steve Biko streets in Arcadia, Pretoria. SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE  news@thenewage.co.za