The South African Maritime Safety Authority, working with the Transnet National Ports Authority says operations within the Port of Durban will continue to monitor Durban’s and the coastal weather and sea conditions. This is after several vessels were badly affected by the storm that hit several parts of KwaZulu-Natal. Sobantu Tilayi, chief operating officer for SAMSA says five container ships in total were affected. “Our principal officer from SAMSA Durban office, Captain Hopewell Mkhize together with the Port of Durban Harbour Master, Captain Alex Miya convened a Joint Operations Committee which managed the emergency response operations. Five container ships in total were affected. We will continue monitoring weather conditions along the coast and monitor the situation in Durban for the next 48 hours,” said Tilayi. In the statement released the authority said the vessel, MSC Innes took priority as it blocked the port entrance. They said it took five tugs to refloat the 330-metre long container vessel. “She was allocated a berth in the port for damage inspection.the vessel, Bow Triumph, a 183-metre long product tanker, which was berthed in Island View broke its moorings and ran aground on the sandbank near the Island View Terminal. The vessel was refloated at 16h30 and it took a further effort to clear the anchors which were still stuck. All refloating operations were completed at 17h30 and the vessel was allocated a berth overnight for damage inspection,” said Tilayi. The vessel, MS New York, a 330-metre long container vessel, which ran aground near Maydon Wharf was also refloated successfully and was allocated a berth for damage inspection. Tilayi said the Minister of Transport, Joe Maswanganyi, has been kept abreast of the emergency response and salvage operations and an emergency meeting was convened yesterday with Mkhize and Miya to form a joint command and engage on the refloating for the vessels MSC Innes, SM York, Bow Triumph and SA Shipyard floating dock with the new harbour tug. “We are pleased with the overall cooperation from all stakeholders and the swift action to ensure the safety of people and equipment. More importantly is the demonstration of emergency preparedness that was displayed during this major incident. It is the first time that we have had to attend to this number of casualties simultaneously,” he said.