WITH the elective conference of the ANC in December fast approaching, the party’s stalwarts and veterans have sounded the alarm over ANC values and principles being eroded by violence during elections. The stalwarts who are signatories to the “For the Sake of our Future” document, said yesterday that the scenes of chaos which marred the ANC Eastern Cape provincial conference were worrying developments. They said the incidents were denting the image of the 105-year-old liberation movement. “The violence that we saw at the ANC’s Eastern Cape conference has nothing to do with the core values and principles that comrades Tambo and Mandela stood for,” they said. These comments came at a time of fracturing relations in the ranks of the ruling party and among its alliance partners over who would be a successor to President Jacob Zuma. The ANC’s veterans said that the recent incidences of violence in the ruling party were indicative of a leadership vacuum. “It does, however, reflect the deep crisis within the ANC,” the stalwarts said. “This regrettably includes those within the leadership of the ANC who have placed self-interest above that of our country and the high ethical standards that has been an integral part of the 105 years of the existence of the ANC,” they said. The stalwarts called on the ANC to crack down on infighting and factionalism in its ranks. “As stalwarts and veterans of the ANC, we condemn violence in all its forms in our young democracy,” they said. “We believe we speak on behalf of the overwhelming majority in our country and members of the ANC who are sickened by this needless violence and intimidation that has become a norm,” they said. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told The New Age this week that there were elements in the movement that were hell-bent on collapsing the party’s December conference. “People will do everything to collapse the conference if the numbers are not in their favour,” he said. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa also condemned the scenes of violence which marred the ANC Eastern Cape conference. “Comrades, what we saw on our television screens and some of the things we saw ourselves and on social media, it’s something that we as the ANC must be deeply ashamed of,” Ramaphosa said. At the ANC’s recent national policy conference, security had been beefed up as officials vowed to keep a tight grip on the venue. Security experts have warned that if ANC regional and provincial conferences were anything to go by, then party officials should be on high alert, to avoid proceedings at the national conference be disrupted by chaos. BONOLO SELEBANO news@thenewage.co.za