The ANC head office has been served with a letter to institute legal proceedings to have the Eastern Cape provincial conference to be set aside. The letter from Mvuzo Notyesi Attorneys which is representing ANC member, Baxolile Khulu, requests the NEC to declare the conference illegal, adding that the PEC conducted the conference without adhering to proper channels. It further alludes that certain branches were barred from participating in the conference and that the conference was marred by fraud and irregularities. “On the 29th to 30th September 2017, the Eastern Cape held a Provincial Conference. In the preparation for this conference, certain branches including ward 22 of Mhlontlo, ward 5, ward 23 and many other branches were excluded from the conference. “The conference was tainted by irregularities which include a fraudulent change of names of delegates and exclusion of legitimate delegates,” the letter reads. Notyesi’s Attorney gave the party a Monday deadline to respond to its client’s demand or face a court review. “We demand that you nullify the conference and organize a conference immediately, failing which we shall approach the court for review,” the letter emphasised. Last month the conference was marred with allegations of an improperly constituted gathering, which saw the delay of the conference. The reason was that credentials report, which legitimises the attendance of delegates, was not presented. The delay prompted some delegates to force their way in the conference venue. The protests alleged the chaos favoured those who were in support of the newly-elected Chairman Oscar Mabuyane. Meanwhile, the aggrieved comrades through their lawyer accused NEC member Nosiviwe Ngakula of allowing the conference to continue despite it not having a proper quorum. “We are advised that a group led by certain NEC members, who include Cde Nosiviwe Nqakula, and others purported to reconvene the conference and proceeded to elect PEC without a proper quorum and correct credentials,” the letter said. The ANC is yet to comment. -Sipho Jack