KZN ANC provincial Chairperson Sihle Zikalala says he is pleased with the progress made by the South African Police Service. Zikalala said this while testifying at the Moerane commission on the KZN political killings, in Durban on Thursday. He said cases of violence were of great concern to the African National Congress. “We are pleased with the progress made by SAPS in successfully bringing to justice perpetrators of violence in some of the cases,” provincial chairperson said. According to report, the SAPS has arrested 25 persons for murder, 10 for attempted murder, four for possession of unlicensed firearms, seven  for public violence, and nine for assault with grievous bodily harm and pointing of firearms, seven for malicious injury to property, 12 for arson as well as four for common assault. In addition, the SAPS is currently investigating 30 cases with 39 charges between them – including 20 counts of murder, two (2) counts of arson, 12 counts of attempted murder. In addition, the SAPS is currently investigating 30 cases with 39 charges between them – including 20 counts of murder, two counts of arson, 12 counts of attempted murder. Zikalala, begun his testimony, by reminding the commission of the province’s history in terms of violence it has since had to deal with. “Chairperson, we are reminding your Commission and the people of this Province and country of a well-documented history of violence in KwaZulu-Natal, in order for all of us not to lose sight of the facts which came out of a number of investigations and commissions. We are mindful of the pain this might cause to the family of the victims; however, it is absolutely critical that the institutionalisation of violence against the ANC, other liberation movements, and indeed the majority of the people of this country be understood comprehensively,” the chairperson said. He further told the commission that they were there to give testimony of what has been taking place in the province, adding that the party was not there to respond to anyone. The provincial chair told the Moerane Commission that the ANC has been making calls for the establishment of the commission after the killings became more intense. The commission was established to probe the underlying cause of tensions in the province. It was established by Premier Willies Mchunu to investigate political killings, and since its inception, the committee has heard how ANC infighting has contributed largely in these killings. Zikalala is accompanied the party’s provincial Secretary Super Zuma to the Commission. The commission is still in session. -Sipho Jack  