THE ANC top six will descend upon the Eastern Cape in an attempt to resolve the turmoil which has characterised the party’s Eastern Cape provincial executive committee (PEC). This as warring factions within the PEC dispute the legitimacy of its leadership under newly elected chairperson Oscar Mabuyane. The top six are aware that if they do not nip the Eastern Cape PEC dispute in the bud, it may result in the repeat of what happened in KZN, where party members headed to court and emerged successful in having the 2015 provincial elective conference declared invalid. Mabuyane is being challenged by a group aligned to Eastern Cape premier and the ANC’s former provincial chairperson, Phumulo Masualle. This as the group refuses to recognise Mabunyane who was voted in during a chaotic conference at the end of September. With the ANC elective conference in December, the Eastern Cape PEC cannot agree who to endorse as the next party president. It had been reported that Mabuyane said the PEC endorsed deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over as the next president of the ANC. However, Amathole regional secretary Teris Ntuthu subsequently said his region had resolved to support Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Ntuthu has been candid in disregarding the PEC under the leadership of Mabunyane and together with other leaders of the Amathole and Nelson Mandela region, they are known to be sympathetic to Dlamini Zuma. “The only PEC that we recognise is the one that is led by chairperson Masualle. We don’t recognise anyone who was elected after people were beaten with chairs and chased away,” Ntuthu said. “We don’t recognise such a structure. We are calling on the party’s national executive committee to nullify that PEC until we elect a new PEC next year. Our focus now is on the national conference.” Newly elected provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayithobi said regional leaders like Ntuthu had no authority to recognise or reject structures that were above them. “It would be disturbing for the Amathole region to say they do not recognise the PEC. We don’t think that would be wise. We said we must extend an olive branch to them because we understand this is the effect of the shock of losing a conference,” Ngcukayithobi said. REFILWE MAGASHULE news@thenewage.co.za