Shock statistics show that KwaZulu-Natal has the highest rate of underage marriages in the country with 25205 such marriages and Gauteng a close second, with 15929 child marriages, Prof Deirdre Byrne, chairperson of the Unisa-Africa Girl Development Programme (Unisa-AGDP). Last year’s community survey results released by Statistics South Africa said more than 91000 girls in South Africa aged from 12 to 17 are married, divorced, separated, widowed or living with a partner as husband and wife, with the latter forming the majority group. “These shocking statistics paint a dire picture for the emancipation of young African children and women,” she said. Byrne said that according to the 2015 Africa Index, nine of the world’s 10 countries with the highest rates of child marriage are in Africa. “Although the South African statistics are lower compared to the rest of Africa, which represents 125 million of the 700 million worldwide child brides, 17%, the fact that child brides are a reality in South Africa, a country with one of the world’s best constitutions, is frightening. The UN Children’s Fund (Unicef) found in a study in 2015 that more than one in three of these African women and girls (over 40 million) entered into marriage or union before the age of 15. “Patriarchy reinforced by cultural beliefs and practices values the life of a son far higher than that of a daughter due to the status of a boy carrying the family name, continuing the family business, and contributing financially to the family home,” Byrne said. “Girls are seen as a drain on the resources and with the father making all the decisions the girl’s prospects are grim.” The Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) has called for harsher punishments. “We must just implement what is in the law. The Sexual Offences Act as amended in the Constitution says a child below 16 years can’t consent. Even when you elope with the child, it is abuse and a serious offence. We must educate the society about the cultural practice and the rights of other people,” CGE spokesperson Javu Baloyi said. He noted that some people used culture as an excuse. Byrne said the economic inequalities often lead to poor families “selling” their under age daughters to lascivious men. “Social inequities such as this, together with the high maternal mortality and violence against women, weakens a society and is not only an issue of women but also impedes the development of Africa. “When women are exposed to poor health, illiteracy, lack of control over fertility and employment, or basic human rights, their children pay the price too, creating a downward spiral of stagnant economic development and growth,” Byrne said. The Unisa-AGDP is a joint initiative between Unisa’s Gender Institute, the Thabo Mbeki Africa Leadership Institute and the African Union. The #AfricaGirlsCan campaign aims to foster conversations and dialogue on the importance of African girls’ rights to equal education and their fundamental freedoms but also to create opportunities for change. “Marrying young affects a girl’s education and one third of developing countries have not achieved gender parity in primary education. “African girl children are not receiving the same quality or even the same number of hours of education as boys because of three factors. “The first is access to sanitary resources. Many girls miss four to five days of school a month because they do not have access to sanitary towels during menstruation – a fact that, in itself, points to the poverty index and the feminisation of poverty. “The second is teenage pregnancies, which usually result in the girl stopping school. “The other is the gender norms that dictate that it is less important to educate a girl than a boy because she is just going to get married,” she said. ntombin@thenewage.co.za