The attempts, whether deliberate or accidental, to reduce ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s agency and status as a woman to the role of being President Jacob Zuma’s former wife came under the spotlight at the weekend. Speaking at the South African Religious Forum in Phoenix, KwaZulu-Natal, Dlamini Zuma broke her silence to describe the incessant attempts to limit her agency and position to the role of former wife as “hurtful”. “I have again recently personally experienced how dehumanising it is when one is not treated as a full person in your own right but is just simply described as someone else’s former wife,” Dlamini Zuma said. “I have strongly resisted it and condemned it. “I am not unique among women in being subjected to this kind of patriarchy. In fact, the reality is that every woman is in one way or another subjected to such sexist de-humanisation. “When I resist it I certainly do not do so only for my own sake, I also do it for the sake of every other woman,” Dlamini Zuma said. Her comments come against the background of the SABC apologising for referring to her as Zuma’s “ex-wife” in a news headline. The SABC also issued an apology to Dlamini Zuma for calling her “mini-Zuma” during a broadcast. The SABC said it had misspelt her name. Dlamini Zuma also denounced “power mongering” related to the ANC’s December elective conference. “If you want to be a leader and participate in a leadership contest then you must be prepared to accept that you can lose the contestation, Dlamini Zuma said. “And if you lose that you must in advance declare yourself prepared to accept the winner and be prepared to serve under him or her. “If one is not prepared to do so, you are to my mind, not worthy of being a leader and should not even make yourself available to participate in a leadership contestation,” Dlamini Zuma said. She also called for an end to political violence in trouble-torn KwaZulu-Natal. “However, as the governing party in KwaZulu-Natal, the ANC has a responsibility to ensure that we also address the underlying causes of the violence, stop any further violence, and establish work for unity in our ranks,” she said. While steering clear of mentioning allegations of state capture directly, Dlamini Zuma said the scourge of corruption needed to be rooted within the ANC. “We have also heard the very earnest concerns from our religious leaders about corruption in our society. Let me state unequivocally that I believe that every form of corruption is bad,” she said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za