TO TEAMS like the Sharks, the saying that form counts for nothing in a cup final may not only sound like a cliché but also smacks of jealousy. But to Western Province this is exactly what they want to hear this week. This is because Province, who have not been at their menacing best, will be required to produce a title winning performance in the Currie Cup final against the Sharks at Kings Park Stadium on Saturday. John Dobson’s men booked their placed in the final by beating the Lions at Newlands at the weekend. But their recent games are not something to draw inspiration from. Their win against the Sharks that secured them a home semifinal was only their seventh of the season, while the other five matches ended in disappointing losses. Meanwhile, the Sharks have been in inspired form this season, losing just twice in the pool stages, which is the main reason why they will host the final on Saturday. Even though a hostile reception awaits Province at the Shark Tank on Saturday, Dobson is confident his side will give it their best, singling out star wingers Dillyn Leyds and Seabelo Senatla as two players who can make a massive difference for his side. “I think it is going to be a cracking final, we are up for it and keen and we have seen some opportunities. If you look at the teams, I think these are the two best teams, so it is the best final that you could get in terms of the players who are going to be out there and the style of rugby they play,” Dobson said. “We have been stressing the importance of the ugly stuff. Maybe we are slightly off the pace on the pretty stuff. We are going to work very hard on what we do in the opposition’s 22 this week. “I think we will have a more attacking mind-set than last Saturday. We need to create more opportunities for Seabelo and Dillyn.” The two teams are evenly matched in terms of head to head statistics this season, with Province managing to beat the Sharks when the sides met in Durban and the Sharks emerging victorious in Cape Town. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za