WITH the ever-increasing use of cellphones, laptop computers and tablets, energy storage has become critical to ensuring the longevity of these devices. The Minister of Science and Technology, Naledi Pandor, said this yesterday during the launch of the lithium-ion battery (LIB) precursor pilot plant facility, a strategic initiative that could give South Africa a competitive edge in the global energy storage sector. Based in Nelspruit, Mpumalanga, the pilot plant is part of the Department of Science and Technology’s energy programme that is responding to the fast-paced evolution of rechargeable battery technology in the country. To date, the department has invested more than R30m in the project. Pandor said the objective of the programme was to develop energy storage technologies that meet the requirements of Eskom for on-grid storage, renewable energy integration and electric vehicle applications. “We know that one of our biggest challenges going forward in South Africa is providing energy to our homes and industries. “We have some of the best conditions for solar energy in the world, and sufficient wind-energy potential to provide us with most of our energy needs,” Pandor said. Minister Pandor also praised leading lithium-ion battery researcher Prof Michael Thackery, who also attended the launch, for his noteworthy contributions to the energy storage sector. The pilot facility was launched in partnership with the University of Limpopo’s materials modelling centre where post-graduate students are doing significant research in the arena of energy storage. The university’s vice-chancellor and principal, Prof Mahlo Mokgalong, said: “We believe that this project will help position ourselves as a world-class global supplier of manganese-based cathode materials for the international LIB industry.” Prof Mokgalong added that the project would expand the base of that research and bring more collaborations and partnerships. “Some of the global players are present at this launch and this will accelerate our pace as major players in research on battery materials,” he said. The university’s centre also hosts a South African research chair initiative, which has conducted research in computational modelling of energy storage materials over many years and has participated in many research endeavours. – 701570 TNA Reporter 