PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma, known among his compatriots as Lucas Ntuli, an alias he used to try and evade arrest, said that the 1963 arrest in Groot Marico remains one of the enduring memories of his political career. Together with 63 other Umkhonto we Sizwe freedom fighters, luck ran out for Zuma after apartheid law enforcement agencies pounced on them, cutting short their journey to neighbouring Botswana. The North West provincial government has built a monument to commemorate the arrest of Zuma and many others who used the same route to skip the border into Botswana and other countries. Zuma officially unveiled the monument on Wednesday saying that there are many stories that need to be told. “I am thinking of many comrades who use this route to skip the country. Many ANC leaders used the same route into exile. It is unfortunate that some of those cadres who were arrested here are no longer alive. We can tell stories of our freedom fighters in many ways, hence I am going to write a book about our struggle,” Zuma said. On the day of the arrest, Zuma recalled how they were travelling in four taxis that were all intercepted. Despite the circumstances, Zuma said there was one Levy Mbatha who kept their morale high. “Mbatha was a brave man and he took over the reins from Joe Modise as operational commander. We were arrested because our driver got lost along the way. All 63 cadres were incarcerated at Zeerust police station and that was the beginning of my journey to Robben Island. “We were on our road to train as Umkhonto we Sizwe operation abroad when we were arrested. We arrived at Groot Marico around 11am in the morning while hungry and thirsty. The police cross-questioned us and we told them different version of stories because they caught us off-guard,” he said. On hindsight, the president said that they could have played in the hands of the police. “The mandate was to have one story that can convince the law enforcement. However, that day we had not time to discuss the event. We were also given false names and I was called Lucas Ntuli. The aim was to confuse the law enforcement agencies, but the police found a piece of paper in my pocket written Jacob Zuma. Of course I denied knowing Jacob Zuma and lied to the police. “Most of us could not speak Tswana. It was only Piet Mahlangu who could. The police beat us up and incarcerated us at the Zeerust Police Station. However, we started planning our escape. “Unfortunately, police came out in numbers the following day and only Ralf Mkhwanazi tried to escape. He was re-arrested and we were taken to Marabastad police station near Pretoria. I will never forget this place because of memories. I believe that this road (N4) needs to be renamed. It must be given the unique name that reflects what happened here,” Zuma said. “This site has a special place in my heart not only for my personal history but because it taught us many lessons as freedom fighters. “I’m really honoured by the North West government for preserving this site for the future generations to know what we went through while pursuing liberation struggle,” Zuma said. The monument, heavily criticised by opposition parties, is seen by the provincial government as essential to the recording of African history. It is expected to contribute towards job creation, tourism and economic growth in Ramotshere Moiloa local municipality. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Premier Supra Mahumapelo said that the monument would narrate the true history to the visitors about the freedom fighters who sacrificed for the liberation of the country. “We are not only honouring President Jacob Zuma but we are sending a message that as we are moving forward in building our country, we must make sure that we do not erase our history, but we preserve and tell it to our future generation not distorted. “The people of Groot Marico will use the site for tourism purposes while in the process improve the local economy because more quests will take place in this area,” he said. The construction cost of the monument has not been made public and opposition parties say they will call for full disclosure. DA’s Joe McGluwa said: “The DA believes that this monument is a slap in the face of every South African that is struggling to find a job, that suffers the non-delivery of basic services and is affected by ANC corruption, mismanagement, the downgrading to junk status, poor economic growth and the looting of state resources.” -ELFAS TORERAI AND OBAKENG MAJE