THE trial of a man who allegedly killed his girlfriend at a rave party in Paarl will be heard this morning in the Western Cape High Court. On New Year’s Eve in 2013, Sharisha Chauhan, a 21-year-old law student and her boyfriend Taariq Phillips, the accused, attended a rave party in Paarl. It is alleged that around midnight, Phillips, Chauhan and some friends took drugs and went dancing. A short while later Chauhan started feeling sick. It was initially believed that Chauhan had died of a drug overdose. However, an autopsy report said she had been strangled to death. Phillips faces charges of rape and murder. Tomorrow, the assault case against Ipid head Robert McBride will be heard in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. McBride is facing charges of child abuse and intent to cause grievous bodily harm. In August, McBride was granted bail of R10000 for allegedly assaulting his daughter. On Wednesday, the bail application for the scholar patroller from Orlando East who is accused of sexually abusing more than 80 schoolchildren at AB Xuma Primary School will be heard in the Protea Magistrate’s Court. The National Prosecuting Authority said it had received 15 statements out of the 87 alleged victims. Out of the 15, it has derived three charges of rape and five of sexual assault. Meanwhile, the Gauteng department of education said the affected pupils ranged from five years old to 12 years. On Friday, the case against EFF leader Julius Malema will be heard in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court. Malema has been accused of having contravened the Riotous Assemblies Act. Malema has been accused of calling for land invasions during the EFF elective conference in Bloemfontein in December 2014. He has also appeared in the Newcastle Magistrate’s Court on similar charges brought by civil rights group AfriForum. The case against terror accused twins Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie will be heard on Friday in the South Gauteng High Court where defence counsel will challenge the constitutionality of the Terrorism Act. In pre-trial proceedings, attorney Annelene van der Heever told judge Raylene Keightley that she would be submitting a constitutional defence application, which would challenge the South African Terrorism Act, which her clients were being charged with. The twins have been behind bars since they were arrested in July last year. They were arrested on suspicion of plotting terrorist attacks on various Jewish institutions and individuals as well as attempting to join Isis. nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za