WHEN Irvin Katangane was released from the hospital, he felt he was strong enough to go back to work in Sandton. But it took one trip for him to quit his job and stay at home. “I could not go under that bridge again. As soon as the taxi drove under that bridge, everything came back, I could not be there again,” he said, Katangane is one of the victims of the 2015 Grayston bridge collapse who almost two years after they almost lost their lives, say their medical bills are piling up, they are in the dark about the investigation and are unable to work because of the trauma and injuries they suffered when the 80 ton steel bridge collapsed onto them. Katangane 23, and his colleague, Bryce Carlinsky, worked as call centre agents at Telkom in Sandton. They were both in the front seat of a taxi when the bridge collapsed, killing the driver immediately. This month marks two years since the incident but the inquiry set up to investigate the matter has not yielded any results. Last week, the inquiry was again postponed by 10 months. “I just want this matter to come to an end. It’s been almost two years and we have not seen any progress in the inquiry. Murray & Roberts paid for my hospital bills while I was in hospital and now the matter is between them and my lawyers,” Katangane said. His mother, Selina, has had to go back to work from retirement to take care of the family. The mother still has clear memories of watching the news of the bridge collapse unfolding on TV and did not know that her son was among the victims of the disaster, until 2am the next morning. “Irvin has not been coping since the accident. He left his job because he was afraid of driving under the bridge. As his mother I had to go look for a job so that I can support him,” the woman said. Carlinsky is also disturbed by the postponements as he feels like the companies involved are shifting blame and not ready to get to the bottom of the matter. “It’s disappointing that this matter has been dragging on for this long. I feel like they are trying to brush it under the carpet as they do not even inform us,” Carlinsky said. Meanwhile, a family from KZN whose son Adrian Doodnath, 28, died in the incident and three of his relatives were injured, says they are also left with the burden of paying medical bills. They say they were promised that Murray & Roberts (M&R) would pay for the medical bills but the company allegedly only settled half of it. Doodnath was with his father Ashley Doodnath, Indraini and cousin Jason Perumal when their Toyota Fortuner was crushed by the bridge. “We do not know who to speak to as we do not even have contacts. We have lost a lot of things because the family lost work for a couple of months,” family member Jason said. However, M&R spokesperson Ed Jardim said that the company paid for the immediate medical expenses of the injured and deceased of all individuals who accepted its assistance. “In terms of any final reparations as a result of the cause of the tragic incident, the cause is yet to be established by the inquiry, thus there is no basis for any reparations yet. I’m sure this will follow as soon as the inquiry is concluded and the final findings released,” he said. He said only the family of Siyabonga Myeni, 27, who was the taxi driver from kwaNongoma accepted financial assistance for the funeral. “The Doodnaths did not accept our offer for assistance,” he said. Form-Scaff, the company which supplied scaffolding to M&R, says the company will await the outcome of the probe. CEO Mike Els, said: “Form-Scaff is committed to a thorough, effective and efficient enquiry. As part of due process with regards to the section 32 enquiry, world-renowned forensic analysis experts were asked to assist with the investigation, submitting detailed information to the commission for review. As such, additional time has been allocated to thoroughly assess and understand the findings presented, after which an outcome will be reached.” Johannesburg Development Agency legal representative Willem le Roux has however advised families with issues to find a legal representative to issue a summons. “An inquiry like this should be finalised as soon as possible. The objectives must determine the causes of the incident, then to make recommendations for remedial measures. For that reason, it can’t be delayed. This is upsetting. It should have been finalised long ago.” Department of Labour spokesperson Teboho Thejane said victims and companies were being represented in the inquiry and these representatives were responsible for keeping them updated.  KUTULLO MADISHA  kutullom@thenewage.co.za