YET another case of femicide has left an eight-year-old girl without a mother after her boyfriend stabbed and ran her over with a car in Thuthukani township in Mpumalanga. Zandile Sibisi, 29, died after her boyfriend, Bucks Magagula, broke a beer bottle and stabbed her in the head several times before he drove over her lifeless body with her own car. He then went to Sibisi’s house and dropped her car and keys. Minutes after killing her, Magagula posted a number of Facebook posts, including one that said: “You can say whatever, it was time.” Another said: “Everything happens for a reason.” The incident took place on Sunday after the couple attended a drag racing event at Standerton Show Grounds. On Tuesday, Magagula committed suicide in Standerton. Standerton police spokesperson Capt Johannes Nhlabathi confirmed that a case of murder was opened after Sibisi was declared dead. “The suspect was found on Tuesday after he committed suicide at the yard where cattle are auctioned. Since the case of murder was opened, police have charged the suspect even though he was found dead. Then the case will be closed,” Nhlabathi said. Close friend Sphiwe Zwane said she was with the couple on Saturday at the event. She took The New Age team to the scene where her friend was killed. “This brutal murder comes as a shock to us, we were all happy and having fun at the event. Bucks later went to my friend’s car since he had lent her his jacket and he complained about being cold. He then sat in the car. About 30 minutes later, Zandile went to check on him, they then announced that they were leaving about 9pm,” Zwane said. She said about 10pm she called Sibisi but her phone was off. She then called Magagula. She said he told her that they had both arrived at home. “About 4am I received a call from a neighbour who told me that Sibisi had been stabbed near the T-junction, I told her that Sibisi was home and I went back to sleep. About 5am I received another call from another male neighbour who said Sibisi had an accident,” Zwane said. “We rushed to the scene, we found Sibisi covered in blood and in a bad state, her car was a few metres away. The police were on the scene. While investigating, they realised that the car was covered in Sibisi’s blood. We have lost a beautiful soul. I am glad Magagula is dead.” Sibisi’s sibling, Sbusiso Sibisi, said a neighbour alerted him about the accident and upon arriving at the scene he said he was crushed to see his sister lying in a pool of blood. “I was really hurt, I just wanted to know who did this to my sister. I saw blood and flesh on my sister’s car. My sister used to take care of us as her family and her daughter Kgothatso, who really took the news about her mother badly. She cried a lot.” Local NPO #Iam helped the family solve the mystery of the tragic death. Spokesperson Louis Thabethe said after hearing about Sibisi’s death on Sunday, they conducted their own preliminary investigations including on the background of the deceased and the perpetrator. “We then contacted the family and spread the word using Facebook and word of mouth. We discovered that the suspect was still in Standerton, we helped the police look for him. On Tuesday we learned that he had committed suicide,” Thabethe said. He said this was one of many cases related to women abuse on the rise in Standerton. ntombin@thenewage.co.za