BLACK First Land First has accused the DA-led city of Johannesburg administration of abuse of power in sanctioning a march led by party leader Mmusi Maimane to the home of the Gupta family in Saxonwold. BFLF leader Andile Mngxitama yesterday said the organisation had briefed its lawyers to lodge a high court application for a declaratory order against the city of Johannesburg this week. The organisation will also write to Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, Independent Police Investigative Directorate and the public protector to complain about last Thursday’s march. Mngxitama also accused the DA in the Johannesburg metro of reducing state institutions to be its violent tools. “The march to the Gupta private family home was illegal and meant to abuse the rights of that family on behalf of white monopoly capitalists like Johann Rupert and Maria Ramos,” he said. “The DA knew it was breaking the law when it marched to the Gupta family home, but it didn’t care. It’s a dangerous development that the DA is using the police as its private army.” According to Mngxitama, the march “was not processed in terms of the law and police allowed marchers to even jump on the fence of the private home”. The organisation said it has also noted how the police, who a week ago had without warning fired on peaceful BLF marchers, were tolerant of the DA protesters. “This shows that the police are captured by the DA.” BLF was seeking an order declaring that the DA had abused its powers “in granting itself permission to march without following the law’’. BLF also wants the court to declare that the DA had contravened two court decisions that barred marches to private homes. “The DA is a corrupt and violent party which claims to be for the rule of law. By its actions it’s a rogue racist party which doesn’t care for the rule of law in pursuing its racist agenda in defence of white monopoly capital.” It also wants the court to order the city of Johannesburg “to state explicitly in the rules governing protests that private homes are off limits”. He said BLF would also complain to Ipid about the public order policing unit that had shot rubber bullets at BLF members “who were sitting peacefully in the park after the march”. BLF would write to Mbalula to act against reckless police. “BLF demands that the police who shot at us with rubber bullets face disciplinary actions and be put on suspension immediately.” Transform RSA leader Adil Nchabeleng also condemned last week’s “illegal” DA march. “These are the same people who say they stand for the rule of law,” he said. news@thenewage.co.za