“WE would not be sitting where we are had those people been left at Life Esidimeni.” Those were the words of reverend Joe Maboe whose son died after being removed from Life Esidimeni. Maboe yesterday testified about how he accidentally found out that patients were being moved while visiting his son, Billy. Maboe told justice Dikgang Moseneke how one day, when he went to visit his son, he was met with chaotic scenes of patients being moved. He said he witnessed two big trucks being used to load patients. Moseneke has consistently heard how patients were moved using open bakkies with patients tied up. Maboe said the patients were confused and did not understand what was happening. He described the scenes as what looked liked an auction as patients scrambled to get their clothing and belongings. The next time Maboe visited the facility, he said he was told it was now a drug rehabilitation centre. It would take Maboe a year before he found his son at an NGO called Bophelong in Hammanskraal. The NGO was a house with 40 beds. “When I first saw Billy, I got the shock of my life. He was filthy, smelly, hungry and disorientated. The clothes he wore were the clothes he wore at Life Esidimeni,” Maboe said. He said his son was so hungry and dehydrated he could hardly say a word and when given food, he wanted to eat the plastic. Billy was later admitted to hospital, where he died. When asked what he wanted to say to the government and the country, Maboe said: “Father forgive them, for they know not what they are doing.” He warned that more would still come as the government did not know what it was doing. However, he would continue to pray. Veleminah Thejane, the sister of Charles, another patient who also died as a result of the Mental Health Marathon Project also testified. She detailed how the family was shunted from pillar to post when making funeral arrangements. Thejane broke down as she testified how her uncle died shortly after they buried Charles. leratod@thenewage.co.za