WITH the ANC’s policy conference having resolved that free higher education must be implemented from next year, fears are mounting that the leaked fees’ commission report has left the ruling party with “egg” on its face. According to the leaked report, the Heher Commission found that free higher education for all would not be feasible any time soon. However, ANC Youth League secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza dismissed with scepticism the commission’s work on the matter. He said that the commission’s findings would not deter the ANC from adopting its resolution at the party’s December elective conference. The ANC’s policy conference did, however, say that free tertiary education must be implemented from next year, “subject to availability of funds”. “Commission or no commission, the ANC will not be deterred. The commission is not running the government, the ANC is running the government. The commission has decided to play in the political space to present the ANC as a failing government,” Nzuza said. Nzuza’s comments come against the background of the Presidency scrambling to calm tensions after the report’s leak at the weekend. With ground-swells of anger already fermenting among student bodies, the presidency said that President Jacob Zuma would soon be releasing the report. Nzuza cried conspiracy on the part of the leaked report to create an atmosphere of rebellion against the ANC. “We also believe that the report was meant to create chaos and confusion in the country. This alleged report is a ploy to make the ANC fail when the resolution (free education) must be implemented at the ANC conference. “This report must be set aside if it is true. It did not do its work thoroughly. It did not listen to our inputs, as it has clearly been listening to the views of the private sector.” Young Communist League (YCL) chairperson Yershen Pillay referred to the ANC’s national executive committee meeting earlier this year announcing that it wanted the government to provide free tertiary education to poor students. He said that if the leaked report was anything to go by, the ANC would now be in a scramble to save face. “The egg is on the ANC. The ANC has a policy resolution that states the provision of free tertiary education for the poor but there’s a disjuncture between ANC policy and the government’s policy. “It communicates in public and at the same time it has its deployees in the government contradict those policies.” Pillay also said that if free tertiary education won’t be implemented at the start of the 2018 academic year, the YCL would not be taking the matter lying down. “We are not going to accept a report that does not provide free tertiary education for the poor. We’ll take whatever action necessary. We’ll be mobilising students and society not to accept the report,” he said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -Bonolo Selebano  