THE MK National Council’s steering committee yesterday said ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe’s diagnostic report presented to the party’s national policy conference in June was wide off the mark in diagnosing the ills bedevilling the ANC. As the group of former combatants, led by former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda ,prepare for their “all-inclusive” conference this week, MK council leader Thabang Makwetla penned a “critical” review of the ANC’s policy conference. He said Mantashe’s diagnostic report submitted to the party’s policy indaba would not be effective in lifting the ANC out of its quagmire, owing to its ambiguity. “The diagnosing report to the policy conference is regrettably fraught with controversial diagnosis and prognosis. This has dire consequences naturally; in determining what’s to be done, as evident from the feeble attempt at the end of this document,” Makwetla said. “One of these erroneous (points), which induces complacency and the dearth of revolutionary vigilance, is the suggestion that, ‘the movement reached a plateau in the 2004 general elections, following which it began to decline’. “Mantashe argues that in relation to the ideal moment for the ANC to invest in the new performance trajectory, the ANC is approaching that stage. “We submit that the ANC’s second curve moment occurred right after the 2000 Port Elizabeth NGC (national general council).” Makwetla said the ANC’s policy conference did not fully appreciate the extent of the challenges weighing down heavily on the party. He said the MK council therefore proposed the ANC consider in its work creating organisational renewal. “The proposals to establish a revolutionary electoral commission in the ANC discussion paper is not clear as to what makes it revolutionary. It should be amended to call for an elected electoral commission. “This will ensure that at all material times election processes are insulated from interference by elected leadership councils at all levels of the movement,” Makwetla said. He said the ANC’s integrity commission should also be afforded a higher status than it enjoys. “The same with the integrity commission, this commission must enjoy original authority which must be bestowed on it by conference. “The members of the integrity commission must therefore be elected by the conference directly, in order to execute their duties, without being hindered by being placed under the NEC,” he said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -Bonolo Selebano