Provincial tourism MEC Desbo Mohono has asked pupils to make the most of the information they acquired during the three days of the National Tourism Career Expo (NTCE). There were 22 provincial schools represented by 45 pupils, where they were exposed to various opportunities in the tourism sector and the requirements to accompany them to serve as an inspiration for future sector leaders. She told them of the importance of the sector to the South African economy and its vital contribution to development, urging them to explore the opportunities in the industry. She told the pupils that they are needed in the industry and said that completing Grade 12 was important to achieving success. “Your goal should be to start your own business and ensure you create jobs. Government is ready to assist each an every one of you in achieving your own goal. I, therefore, urge you to use this opportunity and build your own future,” Mohono said. Tourism Deputy Minister Elizabeth Thabethe reiterated the MEC’s words saying the future is in their own hands, and that hard work is necessary for building their careers. “The NTCE 2017 is going to assume its true character of being a melting pot where all tourism education and training stakeholders and industry representatives meet, engage and interact on issues of demand and supply of skills in the sector,” she said. The NTCE has been an annual event and is a multi-departmental undertaking with various interactive exercises, where pupils and educators participate. Exhibitors include tourism products from the industry, higher education and funding institutions. There’s also a seminar that equips educators on the latest advancements in the sector of tourism and hospitality. “It is not like any other careers expo, as it brings all elements of tourism human resources development on board and is the biggest education and training event in tourism,” Deputy Minister Thabethe said. If these students do want to pursue a career in tourism, or more importantly become encouraged to know the government will be there to offer a helping hand. In a department strategic plan document, it said one of its objectives was to facilitate development and growth of tourism enterprises to contribute to the inclusive economic growth and job creation. It said: “To create an enabling environment for tourism enterprises to grow and contribute to job creation and the competitiveness of the destination, through the provision of business support services and tools, enterprise development is a national priority aimed at addressing key challenges of job creation and economic growth. Specifically, SMMEs are targeted for focused support. The tourism sector in the main consists of small and medium enterprises, which are critical in driving the sector’s inclusive growth and competitiveness,” the plan said. – 701295