The African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL) has expressed their dissatisfaction on the latest painting of President Jacob Zuma and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma by artist Ayanda Mabulu. Mabulu has released a painting of Zuma and his former wife Dlamini-Zuma which has received criticism on social media. The ANCWL has condemned the drawing of President Zuma’s genitals as well as that of Dlamini-Zuma. Related:http://www.thenewage.co.za/ayanada-mabulu-painting-grotesque-inflammatory-and-of-bad-taste-anc/ “In our analysis as the ANCWL, Mabulu is just a rented tool used by the enemies of the ANC to assassinate characters of ANC leaders using Mabulu’s painting skills. Their decision to use the likes of Mabulu is to hide behind media freedom and freedom of expression to advance their malicious smear campaign tactics. “The painting of Mabulu depicting Cde President Jacob Zuma and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in a distasteful way is a desperate move by the white monopoly capital and their praise singers, using a rented black painter to tarnish the image of these leaders hoping that it will stop winding wheels of radical economic transformation,” said ANCWL in a statement. Mabulu has previously painted President Zuma performing a sexual act. “Mr Mabulu’s latest painting is nothing but the last kick of those who want to maintain the status quo on land ownership and economic participation to assassinate the character of some ANC leaders towards the 54th ANC National Conference.” The ANCWL has called its supporters and society to remain calm and not be provoked by Mabulu’s paintings as that will be pleasing the enemies of a united society who exhibit his paintings in various platforms. The league believes Mabulu’s painting is aimed at distracting the ANCWL leadership, members and supporters to lose focus on advancing the agenda of fundamental change in the structures, systems, institutions, patterns of ownership, management, and control of the economy in favour of all South Africans, in particular, the poor and the working class, the majority of whom are Africans and females. TNA Reporter 
        