A fairytale unbeaten run by South African Premiership leaders Baroka ended Sunday when they fell 1-0 at home against defending champions Wits. Vincent Pule scored the winner two minutes before half-time at Peter Mokaba Stadium in northern city Polokwane by staying just onside to tap in a low cross. Baroka, a star-less outfit with a small support base who narrowly dodged relegation last season, had won four league games and drawn four before tackling the defending champions. They remained top of the table, though, after nine rounds as the two clubs who could have overtaken them, Golden Arrows and Orlando Pirates, both drew. Victory was a huge morale boost for Wits, who triumphed for only the second time in the Premiership this season after a disastrous start in defence of the title. Baroka have 16 points, Arrows 15, Pirates 14, Kaizer Chiefs 13 and Cape Town City and Bloemfontein Celtic 12. Recently deposed African champions Mamelodi Sundowns lie 12th after three losses in six games and Wits’ win lifted them only one place to 14th, four points above bottom side Platinum Stars. Mid-table Chippa United ended a run of five consecutive draws since former Pirates star Teboho Moloi was named caretaker coach by winning 2-1 at home to Cape Town City. A brilliant volleyed goal from Lyle Lakay gave City an early lead, Abel Mabaso levelled on 50 minutes and hobbling veteran Katlego Mashego struck the Chippa winner. Chippa are among the worst offenders in South African football when it comes to a fire-and-hire approach if coaches struggle. A one win-two losses start to this season cost Dan Malesela his job and gave former Pirates assistant coach Moloi a chance. Stress was etched on the face of the caretaker boss before the Cape Town clash at Mdantsane township near coastal city East London. But after being outplayed in the first half, Chippa were a transformed team in the second period and could have won more decisively. “I knew we could come back and win,” said Moloi. “I told my boys at half-time to believe in themselves and take responsibility.”
-AFP