The saying, “good things come to those who wait”, best describes how Idols SA runner-up for 2016 Thami Shobede has gone about his musical journey since the day he lost the Idols title to Noma Khumalo, who was crowned as the winner during a spectacular live show on November 27. The 28-year-old singer showed he was not a quitter in what he believed in, which is music and the ability to sing. Shobede’s dream has finally turned into reality with the release of his debut album, Never Lost released just two months ago. Speaking to The New Age in a recent interview, the Mtubatubaborn singer said the title of his new album is an indication of his resolve to make a success of himself in spite of not winning the singing competition. “The title of my album says it all, Never Lost, means that I never lost in the Idols competition, I just won what was due to me in the competition. Considering that the first time I entered the competition was in 2005 when I was only 16 years and never made it for all these years. Last year I achieved position two. So my debut album had to tell a story of my music life,” he said.Shobede’s music career started in the church and school choirs while he was still young, which later saw him joining the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) military jazz band in 2010. “I joined the army in 2008 after I failed to complete my electrical engineering diploma due to financial constraints,” he said. Shobede’s music career started in the church and school choirs while he was still young, which later saw him joining the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) military jazz band in 2010. “I joined the army in 2008 after I failed to complete my electrical engineering diploma due to financial constraints,” he said. The irrepressible singer said he drew inspiration for his music from local musicians such as Ringo Madlingozi, Simphiwe Dana and Thandiswa Mazwai who have remained true and honest to the culture of South African music. He said he was prepared to give his best in the music industry, as this is his first love that he has always believed God blessed him with to share with the world. “I have always dreamt of being a successful musician. I want to be like Hugh Masekela in my genre, to be known across the world as a South African Afro soul/ pop musician,” Shobede said. Working with Khaya Mthethwa on the production of the album and singing a duet with Brenda Mtambo on Letting Go, has shown him South African talent needed to be exposed and appreciated by the rest of the world. He said his next major music dream was to work with the person responsible for the music of international superstar Adele. He described his debut album as a love album with the exception of a duet with Mtambo, which was the only break-up song on the album. “The song Thenjiwe is a personal experience and a dedication to a lady whom I used to have a crush on when I was only 8 years. She was a pastor’s daughter from our neighbourhood,” he said. robertt@thenewage.co.za