Shoprite SA has announced on Twitter that they are aware of the incident which took place at the Usave/Shoprite Cosmo City Mall but said the security guards, shown on the video, do not belong to Shoprite. We are aware of this incident which took place in the Cosmo City Mall whereafter centre security apprehended a woman in Usave. — Shoprite SA (@Shoprite_SA) October 7, 2017  Hi Tumi, the incident leading up to this arrest happened in the Cosmo City Centre and involves the centre's security not USave 1/2 — Shoprite SA (@Shoprite_SA) October 7, 2017    A video posted by Thabiso Phinda on Facebook emerged on Saturday causing a social media buzz. The video shows a security personnel at Usave/Shoprite in Cosmo City assaulting and manhandling a woman with her child inside the shop. According to Phida, it was because her child had messed outside the Usaveshoprite. “We are aware of this incident which took place in the Cosmo City Mall whereafter centre security apprehended a woman in Usave,” Shoprite SA said on Twitter. : “The incident leading up to this arrest happened in the Cosmo City Centre and involves the centre’s security not USave. ” The video shows three security guards manhandling the handcuffed woman while her three-year-old child cries. A customer who took the video is heard saying ” this is an assault “. Social media users have lashed out Shoprite SA saying their response on the matter is insensitive with some saying that Usave must be boycotted. So the incident that happened at #Usave Store in Cosmo City didn't come to Twitter ? #BoycottUsaveCosmoCity!!! — ♠Lokshin FarmBoy™ (@sbongag9) October 7, 2017  This footage though was it taken inside @Shoprite_SA  coz it doesn't really matter as 2 who instigated it if yo shop was the host — Nolwazi Khumalo (@Lwalwa23) October 7, 2017  Doesn't sound like you're doing anything cos firstly you're not taking responsibility. This was inside your store so show some respect — Ashley Moloisane (@ashley_moloi) October 7, 2017    In a statement posted on Facebook from the Centre management, they said the incident is regrettable and unfortunate. “We have been alerted about the incident and are convinced this is not the way to treat customers especially in front of kids,” they said. They said the two security guards involved in this video have been put on immediate suspension while the issue is been fully investigated. “We have reached out to USave to understand the details of the incidence better and centre management is reaching out to the affected customers and determine what support can be afforded. ”   So just because its not Usave stuff that assaulted her and traumatized the child you don't care?? Buphi ubuntu lapho but you take our money pic.twitter.com/mb0jrXZdMa — That Chubby Guy (@Mdakani_TV) October 7, 2017  I sincerely hope that the subsequent response will be measured, sensitive, decent and depicts your understanding of human kindness….. — Xolani Cleo Majola (@cleongqulunga) October 8, 2017    TNA Reporter 