The Life Esidimeni alternative dispute resolution process between the state and families of the victims is expected to start on Monday in Parktown. The hearing is expected to last for at least 15 days with the government and affected family members expected to testify. The proceedings will be led by retired Judge Justice Dikgang Moseneke. The report by health ombudsman Malegapuru Makgoba found that the decision to move the patients from Esidimeni under the Gauteng mental health marathon project was flawed and negligent. Moseneke started the proceeding by informing those partaking in proceedings that the outcomes of the process were binding. Issues if sensitivity concerning families of the deceased was raised by lawyers representing the families, to which Justice Moseneke said the process was not going to be adversarial in nature and would take I to account that the matter was sense time. Meanwhile, the families say while they have waited for a long time for proceedings g to start, they were happy today was the first day of getting closure. They have however cautioned that while the welcome the commencement of the proceeding, they were aware that the process would open old wounds expected to testify are Professor Malegapuru Makgoba, Gauteng health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa and Gauteng premier David Makhura and the families among others. Council for the State Tebogo Hutamo began the proceedings with saying that the State acknowledged and accepted responsibility for the tragedy that saw the deaths of over a hundred psychiatric patients in Gauteng. Hutamo said the state will rely on a recommendation in the report by the Health Ombudsman to demonstrate that the state accepted responsibility for the tragedy. “The State will demonstrate that the government has accepted and acted on the contents of the report in its totality,” he said. Hutamo said the State accepts that redress and closure must come from the process. He said the State intends to give a full explanation as to how the tragedy happened and what steps were taken following the tragedy. He argued in his opening statement that the State is a caring state and that it did react even prior to the release of the report as early as 2016 by contacting families. “What transpired is that when these incidents occurred the Premier did not waste time and proceeded to make contact with families as early as 2016 and that occurred prior to the release of the report,” he said. “It will become apparent that the State after having taken responsibility has on numerous occasions expressed regret and remorse over the incidents that occurred,” he argued. Hutamo said Government through the Health minister have taken every measure to ensure that those findings are fully implemented without any question. “It is also the intention by the state to ensure that those incidents do not occur again in the country,” he said. He said the State was taking measures to ensure that policies were being implemented to avoid the tragedy again. What has been made clear is that the State has participated in the process voluntarily even prior to the release of the report. Meanwhile, Advocate Dirk Groenewald for Solidarity argued that government had failed to protect and provide the patients saying it failed to live up to its own domestic laws and international laws. He is the council for three of the patients. Groenewald argued that the Gauteng Department of Health’s Mental Health Marathon Project will be remembered as the most tragic project since the dawn of democracy. Relatives will come and testify their loved one died of starvation while they were told not to be emotional by personnel,” he argued. -LERATO DIALE 