TIKZN is here again as a platform to enhance international business development strategies THIS year’s Trade and Investment KwaZulu-Natal (TIKZN) Export Week, which will run from October 16-20 at the Durban ICC, is geared towards giving export-ready businesses a platform to enhance their international business development strategies. The Export Week, which has been held annually for six years, includes a programme this time that has been developed to recognise, promote and assist with growing export opportunities in the province, thus giving a global competitive advantage. TIKZ executive manager for export development and promotion Lester Bouah said not only will Export Week underline the significance of exporting to the local economy but the platform will also celebrate and promote some of the exciting successes that KwaZulu-Natal exporters have enjoyed in the recent years. In addition, the exhibition component of the week will create a platform for exporters to engage with service providers like merchant banks, freight forwarders, export councils and economic development agencies that could help them make their exports a seamless process. “It’s going to be bigger and bolder, mixing enhanced networking with fresh, new content. “We are building on last year’s success to create a platform where delegates can do more to accelerate export and trade,” Bouah said. Some of the groundbreaking developments and add-ons for this year include a hands-on, practical export essentials seminar, which would be targeted at emerging export companies, a content- rich and strategic export summit featuring export opportunities in Africa and the Halaal Hub in the province, as well as a master class focusing on export challenges as it relates to port duties, tariffs and tax rebates. The Export Week event will take place alongside the sixth annual African Ports and Rail Evolution forum, which has attracted over 2000 participants from Africa’s ports and logistics sector, thus giving delegates an even broader access to organisations, which can facilitate seamless trade continentally. Meanwhile, the provincial exporter of the year awards, to be held within Export Week, will pit major KZN based companies like Sappi, Sumitomo Rubber South Africa, Toyota SA Motors, Bata South Africa, Factocode T/A Microfinish and Ferro South Africa. The giants would be battling for the exporter of the trophy, manufacturing category. These prestigious awards, which are aimed at recognising the role players in this industry will take place on October 19. The new exporter award will be competed for by Give it Back CC, Siyakha Imperial Printing and Scenicel. Bata South Africa, Factocode, Saddler Belts & Leathercrafts and Zungu-Elgin Engineering are among the companies vying for the medium category exporter award while Mediterranean Shipping Company, Saltrans Logistics, Triple S Shipping and Kühne+Nagel are contenders for the service provider award. -SIHLE MAVUSO