PRIVATE security companies are cashing in on South Africa’s violent nature, making an estimated R55bn a year from a society living in fear of crime. According to the Safety and Security Sector Education and Training Authority (Sasseta), the number of registered companies grow by more than 8% every year and as long as South Africans live in fear, the industry will continue to grow. The industry combined employs 487058 security personnel, more than double the number of police officers employed by the state to fight crime. Gauteng makes up 35% of the private security sector. However, the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) downplayed the fact that the industry outnumbers the entire country’s police force, saying the mandate of the two organs is distinctively clear. Spokesperson Siziwe Zuma said that as PSIRA they don’t believe that private security will replace the police. “PSIRA is mandated to regulate the private security industry and exercise effective control over the practice of the occupation of security service provider in the public and national interest and in the interest of the private security industry itself,” she said. When asked whether private security is elitist or for the privileged she said that most of the service providers factor in what consumers can afford. Additionally, she said that private security should be perceived as an additional option and affordability was still the consumer’s choice. On compliance, Zuma said they had made good strides, with areas the regulator still has to focus on including poor salaries for security officers by employers, PSIRA identity card, which must be displayed by officers whenever they are on duty, use of untrained and/or unregistered officers and non-compliance by private security provident funds. Security expert Dr Johan Burger told The New Age that the growth of this industry was a product of “our own” violent society and as long as this was a feature in the daily lives of citizens it provides an incentive for this sector. This sector he said was also providing much-needed employment and was contributing economically to the country. The number of registered security officers increased from 488 666 to 498 435 during 2016-17. However, this wasn’t a cause for concern or seen to be a replacement for police and other law enforcement authorities. Burger said the sector wasn’t a single unit monopolised by a single company. He said that not all the companies were armed and stressed that they weren’t organised into a single unit from locksmiths to cash in transit and that those armed were a select few. “So its not a single armed force that’s an alternative to the police and military,” Burger said. A major hurdle in this growing sector is the matter of transformation which Burger said isn’t solely based on race and gender but about service delivery meaning more efficiency and effectiveness in implementation. He said transformation would be difficult to measure as the nearly 9000 registered security companies range in size from big ones such as G4S and Protea Coin to small companies with a few individuals such as locksmiths who also have to be registered. While encouraging people to call the police when in danger, community policing forums usually closest to the scene when crime happens in their areas, say it is easier to work with security companies. A Mondeor, a south of Johannesburg resident, echoed Burger’s sentiments that it was fear that led to people paying up to R500 a month for private security and security alarms. “Private security works better because we pay them. We are their clients. Their armed response is also fast,” the resident said. A research study by Olaotse John Kole, Partnership Policing Between the SAPS and the Private Security Industry in Reducing Crime in South Africa, confirmed that in terms of provincial distribution, more than one third of the security businesses registered with PSIRA are situated in Gauteng. “This is in line with factors such as Gauteng’s large residential population, the concentration of national economic activity in the province and provincial crime rates. KwaZulu-Natal is home to the next largest proportion of private security companies (16%). The Free State and the Northern Cape have the smallest number of registered security businesses, with just 3% and 1% of the total respectively,” the study stated. National police spokesperson Brig Vish Naidoo was unable to comment. -HLONI MASHIGO AND KUTULLO MADISHA