IF the recent trend of litigation over party squabbles at ANC regional and elective conferences is anything to go by, the jury is still out on whether the party’s December elective conference will follow suit. This after the ANC’s top six leadership, including President Jacob Zuma and secretary-general Gwede Mantashe met with former KwaZulu-Natal premier and ANC chairperson Senzo Mchunu yesterday in a bid to resolve the political impasse over a Pietermaritzburg High Court ruling, which annulled the 2015 ANC KwaZulu-Natal provincial conference. Sources told The New Age yesterday that Mchunu expressed mistrust of the top six and its commitment towards resolving the impasse in a manner in line with the court’s ruling. This follows last week’s meeting with the sitting KwaZulu-Natal’s provincial executive committee (PEC) led by Sihle Zikalala, whose 2015 election results were ruled unlawful and void by a court of law. While the meeting between the two groups carried on until last night, It was said that a torrent of mistrust has swept through the ANC as a result of numerous court battles, threatening to have the legitimacy of several sitting ANC PEC structures challenged. ANC provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said at the weekend that despite the stalemate in the province, the “centre is holding”. “The ANC’s PEC and the national officials held a day-long meeting, which ended a little while ago. We had a frank, candid and constructive discussion on the challenges facing the National Democratic Revolution and KZN in particular,” he said. This after Mantashe, at a meeting of the ANC national executive committee (NEC) at the weekend, said the KwaZulu-Natal ANC appealed the Pietermaritzburg court judgement as a precautionary measure. Mantashe also said the NEC received legal advice on the matter. “What KZN did was to be more on the side of caution and filed their appeal on the last day of the 15 days if you count it conservatively. So when you do that, you can withdraw the appeal. The court gave us 15 days to appeal. Depending on how you count it, it ended yesterday. But if you are liberal in your counting, you will say it ends on Monday,” Mantashe said. Mantashe has said that a provincial task team would have to be set up as a result of the court judgement. In early September Mchunu extended an olive branch to the provincial ANC leaders, saying the factions had to find agreement. He said that while they would wait for the ANC’s NEC to deal with the matter, the party in the province could not just do nothing about division. “The NEC is well placed to decide what needs to be done following the outcome of the court case, But at the same time, we think that we in the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal need to begin to find one another, Mchunu said. “We need to stop the politics of saying so and so won and now has the power to be a real henchman where you do anything that you want without any principles,” he said. However, as things stand Mchunu seems to have little faith in the facilitation of the NEC. ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said yesterday that due to various deployments and engagements of the party’s national leadership, a post-NEC meeting media briefing had to be canned. The group, which challenged the ANC KwaZulu-Natal PEC in court is made up of party members aligned to Mchunu. The verdict is widely seen a boost for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s presidential bid in December. bonolos@thenewage.co.za