The dogged determination of a junior police officer and the mother of a murder victim has resulted in the recovery of the body of 23-year-old SBV employee Linda Matati. Matati was raped, beaten and strangled last October allegedly by Thabo Happy Mosia, an alleged cash-in-transit kingpin who, until he emerged from the underworld and into court, had not been seen since 2011. Gloria Sibuye, Matati’s mother, has spent every day since her daughter disappeared determined to find the truth behind the murder. Sibuye explained how a young police officer at the Ennerdale police station, which is close to where Mosia lived, had picked up DNA markers related to Mosia in a case involving a cash heist from 13 years ago and another in Bronkhorstspruit. His seniors would, however, not allow him to explore these leads. It was only when the case was transferred to the Lenasia police station that the dots were joined and her daughter’s body found. She was able to identify her daughter, who was found half-naked, through her teeth and other physical features. “I received a call from the police saying that they needed me in Gauteng because there were developments in Linda’s case,” Sibuye said. Once Sibuye arrived at the Migson Manor family home in Mpumalanga, police said they had found had Linda Matati’s remains. A very emotional Sibuye fainted upon hearing the news. “I have never stopped praying since the day Linda went missing. Finally, we have closure and I can give my daughter the dignified burial that she deserves,” she said. Matati was last seen in Mosia’s company on October 9, 2016, after a party in Migson Manor. She was with her best friend, who only wants to be identified as Yvonne, but they were separated after the party. She told this newspaper’s sister TV station ANN7 that she was chased out of the car by Mosia. Mosia was arrested on March 11, following an investigation. During the bail hearing, chilling details of Matati’s apparent last moments were revealed. A state witness informed the police that he last saw Matati with Mosia at 4am on October 9 last year. She appeared motionless and had bruises on her neck and legs. “He kept asking me if I knew a doctor as he was trying to resuscitate her,” the witness told the court. Police spokesperson Lt Kay Makhubela said Mosia now faced other robbery charges but would not be specific. However, he confirmed that DNA evidence from a 2004 cash-in-transit heist helped discover the body of Matati in the Bronkhorstspruit state mortuary. Sibuye believes that Mosia targeted her daughter that night because she was an SBV employee. “I believe that he wanted information from Linda and she refused to give it to him. “He then beat, strangled and raped her,” she said. -Canny Maphanga