The Pan African Congress (PAC) has criticised the DA for marching to the private residence of the Gupta family saying that invading someone’s property was wrong. Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane on Thursday led a number of marchers to the Saxonwold residence saying they were marching against ” the capture of ” South Africa. However, the PAC said the march to someone’s private residence was ill-advised particularly after The Black First Land First was criticised earlier this year for a similar march to the home of veteran journalist Peter Bruce. ” Invading someone’s property is wrong, the owner reserves a right to admit or prohibit those he or she does not want at their place. There is no person who can force their entry into anyone’s home, it is just not right and should never happen. We are hoping that law agencies will do their work to ensure that they protect any person in the country together with their property,” said the PAC. The turn out for the march was poor particularly because of the wet weather Joburg has experienced from the morning. BLF, which was condemned when back in July about 20 BLF members protested outside Bruce’s house in Parkview, Johannesburg, also criticised the DA march for double standards. ” When BLF protested at the homes of racist journalists it was condemned even by the DA,” “The DA’s march today is to divert attention from the racism and corruption it is involved in. The DA is part of white monopoly capital’s war against Radical Economic Transformation. BLF notes that the DA uses black people to do its racist dirty job. The march today will be black but the DA is white on top,” said BLF in a statement. The group vowed to march to the private homes of DA leaders like Helen Zille and James Selfe. They also said they would organise marches to the private homes of business people Johann Rupert, Maria Ramos, Christo Wiesse and Whitey Basson. Meanwhile, outside the Gupta residence, Mmusi Maimane said they marched there because it was the site where President Jacob Zuma was captured. ” The Gupta mansion is the real capture site of Jacob Zuma, and the headquarters of corruption in South Africa. How sad that a young man in 1963 willing to risk his life for a free South Africa, has allowed his own legacy to be defined by corruption and the selling-out of that struggle. Indeed, the struggle for democracy and freedom has been abandoned by Jacob Zuma and his ANC,” said Maimane. He also added that he has called on National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete to immediately establish an ad hoc committee into State Capture by no later than 31 October. -Siphiwe Mchunu    