UNLESS there’s a drastic change in the economic status quo, South Africa faces a bleak future of instability and violence that might even turn into a destructive revolution. ANC presidential hopeful and member of parliament Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma sounded the warning yesterday as she continued her crosscountry advocacy for radical economic transformation (RET) at the mainly women-led Truckers Association of South Africa (Tasa) conference. “The status quo is no longer an option. That is why the ANC decided on RET five years ago. The majority of the people in this country are not part of the mainstream economy,” she said. Dlamini Zuma, who has embarked on an intense presidential campaign ahead of the ANC elective conference in December, was joined at the conference by her team that includes Carl Niehaus and Febe Potgieter-Gqubele. Tasa, a newly-formed association, has chosen Dlamini Zuma as its preferred candidate to be the first woman president of the ANC. Dlamini Zuma’s address tied in with the conference theme of radically transforming the road freight sector in South Africa. Tasa president Mary Phadi said: “We cannot continue being beggars in an industry that is monopolised. We cannot allow this to continue. Tasa and government has the responsibility to level the playing fields.” Dlamini Zuma said people should not be threatened by RET. She said it was to everyone’s advantage in South Africa to embrace it. “This would make the country peaceful, stable and prosperous,” Dlamini Zuma said. Her speech was punctuated by loud cheers from delegates who also sang songs proclaiming their readiness to alleviate poverty. Dlamini Zuma said political freedom will not be sustained without economic freedom. She also praised organisations like Tasa which promote a women’s agenda, saying that women were the driving force of not only the economy but society at large. Dlamini Zuma is set to address the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) and the Zion Christian Church in Sekhukhune, Limpopo on Sunday. news@thenewage.co.za -Refilwe Magashule