A 29-year-old man is expected to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court in connection with the rape and robbery of two Nelson Mandela University (NMU) students. This following a vicious attack on two students at its Second Avenue Campus on Monday night. NMU students were in great shock when two of their students were attacked in a computer lab, raped and the other one stabbed in the back. Police said a 25-year-old student was raped and her friend stabbed at the campus. Police spokesperson Col Priscilla Naidu said the students were in the computer lab when a man entered. “The students were threatened with a pair of scissors. They were robbed of their phones and wallets and one of the students was raped,” Naidu said. “After the rape, the suspect made the two students carry the computer outside. He jumped over the gate and ordered them to pass the equipment to him.” The university said the management spent the better part of Tuesday in consultation with students around issues of safety and security. NMU spokesperson Zandile Mbalela said certain measures are to be immediately implemented. “We are heightening security by increasing the number of staff to undertake visible patrolling across all campuses, including all teaching venues, from now until the end of exams. “Expanding partnership with SAPS and the Metro Police so as to attain extra support for our students in and around our campuses, particularly on Second Avenue and Missionvale,” said Mbalela. Mbalela added that some of the security measures include improvement of the CCTV monitoring, undertake control checks at entrances, taxi drop-off points and bus stops, undertake an audit of all the external campus lighting and Extending its anti-crime initiatives with the Summerstrand Community Crime Forum, especially towards the establishment of safe off-campus “green route” that will be monitored and patrolled. The horrific incident sparked the ire of students who demanded better security at the institution. -TNA Reporter 